[{"date": "2008-02-08T00:17:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I can understand that Wajid Shamsul Hasan has concerns about the forthcoming elections in Pakistan (Letters, February 5). But I am not sure it is wise for him to make sweeping generalisations such as \"the elections are already stolen\" and \"rigging and malpractice are everywhere\" without providing substantial evidence.Even before Benazir Bhutto's assassination, these elections were always going to be a serious challenge. For this reason, the EU's election observation team has had over 50 long-term observers in place for many weeks, watching the whole process, including electoral registration and media monitoring. Short-term observers will join them to oversee voting at thousands of polling stations as well as the counts and results announcements.Only then will we be able to state whether the elections have fulfilled President Musharraf's hopes that they will be \"free, fair, transparent and safe\".Robert Evans MEPChair, European parliament election observation mission to Pakistan", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Observing Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-02-08T00:17:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I can understand that Wajid Shamsul Hasan has concerns about the forthcoming elections in Pakistan (Letters, February 5). But I am not sure it is wise for him to make sweeping generalisations such as \"the elections are already stolen\" and \"rigging and malpractice are everywhere\" without providing substantial evidence.Even before Benazir Bhutto's assassination, these elections were always going to be a serious challenge. For this reason, the EU's election observation team has had over 50 long-term observers in place for many weeks, watching the whole process, including electoral registration and media monitoring. Short-term observers will join them to oversee voting at thousands of polling stations as well as the counts and results announcements.Only then will we be able to state whether the elections have fulfilled President Musharraf's hopes that they will be \"free, fair, transparent and safe\".Robert Evans MEPChair, European parliament election observation mission to Pakistan", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Observing Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-03-23T00:43:51Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's newly elected government will seek to negotiate with Islamic militants and demilitarise the campaign against them to end the violence racking the country, leaders of the major coalition parties who will take power next week have said. The explicit declaration of a desire to talk to extremists and to reduce the role of the army marks a major change for the strategically crucial country and will confirm fears among American policymakers that the heavy defeat of President Pervez Musharraf at recent elections will lead to Pakistan scaling back its support for the US-led 'war on terror' in the region. Pakistan's rugged western frontier is seen as a haven not just for Pakistani militants but also for al-Qaeda and the Taliban and has been the site of fierce combat for several years.This week a new Prime Minister and cabinet is expected to be sworn in in Islamabad, following an accord between opposition parties. The party of assassinated former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto yesterday nominated the former National Assembly speaker Yousaf Raza Gilani as its candidate for premier. The unprecedented 'grand coalition' he is likely to lead is expected to seek ways to permanently remove Musharraf, a loyal US ally who was re-elected president for a five-year term last year, from power.'The Musharraf era and everything that was wrong with that era is now behind us,' said one Pakistani parliamentarian yesterday. 'We are not going to throw the baby out with the [bath] water, but a lot is going to be different.'American policymakers fear that any negotiations will both legitimise the militants in the eyes of the local population and give them time to rearm, re-train and reform. There has been a series of truces with extremist leaders in recent years, many arranged by Pakistani military commanders on the ground despite Washington's opposition.'We do not believe that truces or talks with militants are productive,' one US official in Islamabad told The Observer earlier this year. British diplomats do not dismiss negotiations entirely, but say that the success of talks 'depends on who is talking and about what.'In interviews before the election last month, senior figures in both major coalition parties - Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League and Asif Ali Zardari's Pakistan People's party - said they favoured a less 'military' strategy to counter violence by Islamic extremists. Sharif said he wanted a 'wide-ranging debate' on how to fight violence, though he refused to commit himself to a policy. However, the New York Times yesterday reported the Muslim League leader saying that the militants were part of 'our own people' and explaining that 'when you have a problem in your own family, you don't kill ... you sit and talk'. Asif Ali Zardari, who assumed joint leadership of the PPP after his wife Benazir Bhutto was killed in an bomb and gun attack attributed to the militants in December, told the New York Times that he favoured using talks and a 'beefed-up police force,' saying that 'even a fool knows that ... what they have been doing for the past eight years has not been working'.Decriminalising the fight against the militants is also favoured by the newly elected provincial government in the North West Frontier Province, but may need constitutional amendments to be put into practice.'We are not talking about appeasement but taking a different approach by looking at law enforcement,' said respected analyst Samina Ahmed of the International Crisis Group in Islamabad. 'If you don't enforce the law, you won't get rid of what is an internal problem.'Ahmed pointed out that one problem will be the semi-autonomous status of the 'tribal agencies' where the militants are based. To end their special legal status, the legacy of British colonial government, will not be easy. 'You need courts, police, judges,' he said.Yet any new government in Pakistan has to tread a careful path. Pakistan relies on America for massive aid, particularly to the country's powerful military. Yet most ordinary Pakistanis believe their army is fighting 'someone else's war' and that casualties of the militants' bombs are paying the price.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Pakistan to meet militants"},{"date": "2008-02-08T00:17:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I can understand that Wajid Shamsul Hasan has concerns about the forthcoming elections in Pakistan (Letters, February 5). But I am not sure it is wise for him to make sweeping generalisations such as \"the elections are already stolen\" and \"rigging and malpractice are everywhere\" without providing substantial evidence.Even before Benazir Bhutto's assassination, these elections were always going to be a serious challenge. For this reason, the EU's election observation team has had over 50 long-term observers in place for many weeks, watching the whole process, including electoral registration and media monitoring. Short-term observers will join them to oversee voting at thousands of polling stations as well as the counts and results announcements.Only then will we be able to state whether the elections have fulfilled President Musharraf's hopes that they will be \"free, fair, transparent and safe\".Robert Evans MEPChair, European parliament election observation mission to Pakistan", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Observing Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-03-23T00:43:51Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's newly elected government will seek to negotiate with Islamic militants and demilitarise the campaign against them to end the violence racking the country, leaders of the major coalition parties who will take power next week have said. The explicit declaration of a desire to talk to extremists and to reduce the role of the army marks a major change for the strategically crucial country and will confirm fears among American policymakers that the heavy defeat of President Pervez Musharraf at recent elections will lead to Pakistan scaling back its support for the US-led 'war on terror' in the region. Pakistan's rugged western frontier is seen as a haven not just for Pakistani militants but also for al-Qaeda and the Taliban and has been the site of fierce combat for several years.This week a new Prime Minister and cabinet is expected to be sworn in in Islamabad, following an accord between opposition parties. The party of assassinated former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto yesterday nominated the former National Assembly speaker Yousaf Raza Gilani as its candidate for premier. The unprecedented 'grand coalition' he is likely to lead is expected to seek ways to permanently remove Musharraf, a loyal US ally who was re-elected president for a five-year term last year, from power.'The Musharraf era and everything that was wrong with that era is now behind us,' said one Pakistani parliamentarian yesterday. 'We are not going to throw the baby out with the [bath] water, but a lot is going to be different.'American policymakers fear that any negotiations will both legitimise the militants in the eyes of the local population and give them time to rearm, re-train and reform. There has been a series of truces with extremist leaders in recent years, many arranged by Pakistani military commanders on the ground despite Washington's opposition.'We do not believe that truces or talks with militants are productive,' one US official in Islamabad told The Observer earlier this year. British diplomats do not dismiss negotiations entirely, but say that the success of talks 'depends on who is talking and about what.'In interviews before the election last month, senior figures in both major coalition parties - Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League and Asif Ali Zardari's Pakistan People's party - said they favoured a less 'military' strategy to counter violence by Islamic extremists. Sharif said he wanted a 'wide-ranging debate' on how to fight violence, though he refused to commit himself to a policy. However, the New York Times yesterday reported the Muslim League leader saying that the militants were part of 'our own people' and explaining that 'when you have a problem in your own family, you don't kill ... you sit and talk'. Asif Ali Zardari, who assumed joint leadership of the PPP after his wife Benazir Bhutto was killed in an bomb and gun attack attributed to the militants in December, told the New York Times that he favoured using talks and a 'beefed-up police force,' saying that 'even a fool knows that ... what they have been doing for the past eight years has not been working'.Decriminalising the fight against the militants is also favoured by the newly elected provincial government in the North West Frontier Province, but may need constitutional amendments to be put into practice.'We are not talking about appeasement but taking a different approach by looking at law enforcement,' said respected analyst Samina Ahmed of the International Crisis Group in Islamabad. 'If you don't enforce the law, you won't get rid of what is an internal problem.'Ahmed pointed out that one problem will be the semi-autonomous status of the 'tribal agencies' where the militants are based. To end their special legal status, the legacy of British colonial government, will not be easy. 'You need courts, police, judges,' he said.Yet any new government in Pakistan has to tread a careful path. Pakistan relies on America for massive aid, particularly to the country's powerful military. Yet most ordinary Pakistanis believe their army is fighting 'someone else's war' and that casualties of the militants' bombs are paying the price.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Pakistan to meet militants"},{"date": "2008-03-21T09:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Like spring flowers, democracy is breaking forth from every pore of Pakistan. On Wednesday the country's newly-elected National Assembly, the lower (and more powerful) house of parliament, voted for the Muslim world's first female speaker. Dr Fehmida Mirza, a nominee of Pakistan People's Party, won more than two-thirds of the votes against her male opponent. A medical professional, and a mother of four, she comes from Badin, one of Pakistan's remotest and most under-developed areas.The symbolism and substance of her victory are noteworthy. For one thing, she is backed by a coalition of parties who contested last month's elections against each other, but later forged an alliance to oust the country's lingering military ruler, general (ret'd) Pervez Musharraf. The number votes in her favour indicates that her backers can begin to purify the country's constitution of the absurd changes that Musharraf sneaked in during his eight-year rule. One change protects him against any accountability of his two-time abrogation of the constitution, which otherwise is treason, punishable by death; another prevents any legal challenge to any of his actions - appointments, transfers, selections, etc - in any of Pakistan's courts.For another thing, she, an authoritative female speaker in a male-dominated legislature, is a perfect counter to the predominant view of Pakistan as a falling domino against a global Talibanisation movement. Her party, whose leader, Ms Benazir Bhutto, the Muslim world's first female prime minister, lost her life to an assassin during her election campaign, is the vanguard of political liberalism in Pakistan. Now it is is joined by a right-of-centre Pakistan Muslim League of former prime minister Nawaz Sharif. He has buried the bloody hatchet with late Ms Bhutto's party and has pledged to a common agenda of building a strong, moderate, democratic Pakistan. Support for the speaker has also come from a far right religious party - Jamiat Ulema Islam (\"Party of the Scholars of Islam\") - which has in the past opposed to the very idea of women in seats of power. Such is the march of new history in Pakistan that even its leader got up to praise the new custodian of the house, assuring her of his party's \"full cooperation and backing\".For a country that has seen women rulers, diplomats, journalists, fighter pilots, scientists, engineers, members of police, armed forces - in short women in every walk of life, having another one in an important position should be an exciting but not ground-breaking development. But a new jolt of energy seemed to go through the national body politic after Dr Fehmida's election because her elevation is seen as a sign of the death of the old debilitating order under Musharraf. It is instructive to note that while the Musharraf spent much effort highlighting his attempts to create a moderate Pakistan, at home he was relentless in trying to break up genuinely moderate political forces. The Peoples Party and the Pakistan Muslim League were his favourite punch-bags. Their leaders were forced out of Pakistan and a combination of coercion and political bribery was used to win over party loyalists to form a hotch-potch of a pro-Musharraf party.Worse, under the table, he encouraged and facilitated conservative religious parties to dominate the centre-stage. Two months ago, General (ret'd) Ehtisham Zamir, one of Musharraf's close aides, unburdened his guilty conscience by admitting that he had been involved in rigging the elections in 2002 upon direct orders from his boss. What Ehsitsham did not say was that he rigged the elections in the North-West Frontier Province, bordering Afghanistan, where religious parties routed secular nationalists - of course with the able help of Musharraf's intelligence sleuths.The people of Pakistan, however, have punched through this fraudulent view of their country. In the latest election, which Musharraf could not steal because of intense international pressure and a nationwide civil society agitation for the rule of law, they have voted overwhelmingly for mature moderates.Religious parties, who were the third largest group in the 2002 elections with 64 seats, are now a poor sixth with five seats. For eight years Musharraf tried to put a demonic paint on Pakistan's face to scare the world into accepting him as the exorcist. But after Dr Fehimda's election the world ought to acknowledge the truth: the real evil in Pakistan always lurked behind the veil of military dictatorship.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Welsh politics", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Springtime for Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-02-08T00:17:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I can understand that Wajid Shamsul Hasan has concerns about the forthcoming elections in Pakistan (Letters, February 5). But I am not sure it is wise for him to make sweeping generalisations such as \"the elections are already stolen\" and \"rigging and malpractice are everywhere\" without providing substantial evidence.Even before Benazir Bhutto's assassination, these elections were always going to be a serious challenge. For this reason, the EU's election observation team has had over 50 long-term observers in place for many weeks, watching the whole process, including electoral registration and media monitoring. Short-term observers will join them to oversee voting at thousands of polling stations as well as the counts and results announcements.Only then will we be able to state whether the elections have fulfilled President Musharraf's hopes that they will be \"free, fair, transparent and safe\".Robert Evans MEPChair, European parliament election observation mission to Pakistan", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Observing Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-03-23T00:43:51Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's newly elected government will seek to negotiate with Islamic militants and demilitarise the campaign against them to end the violence racking the country, leaders of the major coalition parties who will take power next week have said. The explicit declaration of a desire to talk to extremists and to reduce the role of the army marks a major change for the strategically crucial country and will confirm fears among American policymakers that the heavy defeat of President Pervez Musharraf at recent elections will lead to Pakistan scaling back its support for the US-led 'war on terror' in the region. Pakistan's rugged western frontier is seen as a haven not just for Pakistani militants but also for al-Qaeda and the Taliban and has been the site of fierce combat for several years.This week a new Prime Minister and cabinet is expected to be sworn in in Islamabad, following an accord between opposition parties. The party of assassinated former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto yesterday nominated the former National Assembly speaker Yousaf Raza Gilani as its candidate for premier. The unprecedented 'grand coalition' he is likely to lead is expected to seek ways to permanently remove Musharraf, a loyal US ally who was re-elected president for a five-year term last year, from power.'The Musharraf era and everything that was wrong with that era is now behind us,' said one Pakistani parliamentarian yesterday. 'We are not going to throw the baby out with the [bath] water, but a lot is going to be different.'American policymakers fear that any negotiations will both legitimise the militants in the eyes of the local population and give them time to rearm, re-train and reform. There has been a series of truces with extremist leaders in recent years, many arranged by Pakistani military commanders on the ground despite Washington's opposition.'We do not believe that truces or talks with militants are productive,' one US official in Islamabad told The Observer earlier this year. British diplomats do not dismiss negotiations entirely, but say that the success of talks 'depends on who is talking and about what.'In interviews before the election last month, senior figures in both major coalition parties - Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League and Asif Ali Zardari's Pakistan People's party - said they favoured a less 'military' strategy to counter violence by Islamic extremists. Sharif said he wanted a 'wide-ranging debate' on how to fight violence, though he refused to commit himself to a policy. However, the New York Times yesterday reported the Muslim League leader saying that the militants were part of 'our own people' and explaining that 'when you have a problem in your own family, you don't kill ... you sit and talk'. Asif Ali Zardari, who assumed joint leadership of the PPP after his wife Benazir Bhutto was killed in an bomb and gun attack attributed to the militants in December, told the New York Times that he favoured using talks and a 'beefed-up police force,' saying that 'even a fool knows that ... what they have been doing for the past eight years has not been working'.Decriminalising the fight against the militants is also favoured by the newly elected provincial government in the North West Frontier Province, but may need constitutional amendments to be put into practice.'We are not talking about appeasement but taking a different approach by looking at law enforcement,' said respected analyst Samina Ahmed of the International Crisis Group in Islamabad. 'If you don't enforce the law, you won't get rid of what is an internal problem.'Ahmed pointed out that one problem will be the semi-autonomous status of the 'tribal agencies' where the militants are based. To end their special legal status, the legacy of British colonial government, will not be easy. 'You need courts, police, judges,' he said.Yet any new government in Pakistan has to tread a careful path. Pakistan relies on America for massive aid, particularly to the country's powerful military. Yet most ordinary Pakistanis believe their army is fighting 'someone else's war' and that casualties of the militants' bombs are paying the price.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Pakistan to meet militants"},{"date": "2008-03-21T09:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Like spring flowers, democracy is breaking forth from every pore of Pakistan. On Wednesday the country's newly-elected National Assembly, the lower (and more powerful) house of parliament, voted for the Muslim world's first female speaker. Dr Fehmida Mirza, a nominee of Pakistan People's Party, won more than two-thirds of the votes against her male opponent. A medical professional, and a mother of four, she comes from Badin, one of Pakistan's remotest and most under-developed areas.The symbolism and substance of her victory are noteworthy. For one thing, she is backed by a coalition of parties who contested last month's elections against each other, but later forged an alliance to oust the country's lingering military ruler, general (ret'd) Pervez Musharraf. The number votes in her favour indicates that her backers can begin to purify the country's constitution of the absurd changes that Musharraf sneaked in during his eight-year rule. One change protects him against any accountability of his two-time abrogation of the constitution, which otherwise is treason, punishable by death; another prevents any legal challenge to any of his actions - appointments, transfers, selections, etc - in any of Pakistan's courts.For another thing, she, an authoritative female speaker in a male-dominated legislature, is a perfect counter to the predominant view of Pakistan as a falling domino against a global Talibanisation movement. Her party, whose leader, Ms Benazir Bhutto, the Muslim world's first female prime minister, lost her life to an assassin during her election campaign, is the vanguard of political liberalism in Pakistan. Now it is is joined by a right-of-centre Pakistan Muslim League of former prime minister Nawaz Sharif. He has buried the bloody hatchet with late Ms Bhutto's party and has pledged to a common agenda of building a strong, moderate, democratic Pakistan. Support for the speaker has also come from a far right religious party - Jamiat Ulema Islam (\"Party of the Scholars of Islam\") - which has in the past opposed to the very idea of women in seats of power. Such is the march of new history in Pakistan that even its leader got up to praise the new custodian of the house, assuring her of his party's \"full cooperation and backing\".For a country that has seen women rulers, diplomats, journalists, fighter pilots, scientists, engineers, members of police, armed forces - in short women in every walk of life, having another one in an important position should be an exciting but not ground-breaking development. But a new jolt of energy seemed to go through the national body politic after Dr Fehmida's election because her elevation is seen as a sign of the death of the old debilitating order under Musharraf. It is instructive to note that while the Musharraf spent much effort highlighting his attempts to create a moderate Pakistan, at home he was relentless in trying to break up genuinely moderate political forces. The Peoples Party and the Pakistan Muslim League were his favourite punch-bags. Their leaders were forced out of Pakistan and a combination of coercion and political bribery was used to win over party loyalists to form a hotch-potch of a pro-Musharraf party.Worse, under the table, he encouraged and facilitated conservative religious parties to dominate the centre-stage. Two months ago, General (ret'd) Ehtisham Zamir, one of Musharraf's close aides, unburdened his guilty conscience by admitting that he had been involved in rigging the elections in 2002 upon direct orders from his boss. What Ehsitsham did not say was that he rigged the elections in the North-West Frontier Province, bordering Afghanistan, where religious parties routed secular nationalists - of course with the able help of Musharraf's intelligence sleuths.The people of Pakistan, however, have punched through this fraudulent view of their country. In the latest election, which Musharraf could not steal because of intense international pressure and a nationwide civil society agitation for the rule of law, they have voted overwhelmingly for mature moderates.Religious parties, who were the third largest group in the 2002 elections with 64 seats, are now a poor sixth with five seats. For eight years Musharraf tried to put a demonic paint on Pakistan's face to scare the world into accepting him as the exorcist. But after Dr Fehimda's election the world ought to acknowledge the truth: the real evil in Pakistan always lurked behind the veil of military dictatorship.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Welsh politics", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Springtime for Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-02-25T19:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "President George W Bush rightly called Pakistan's recent national and provincial elections \"a victory for [its] people\". But, even as he uttered those words, his administration was working behind the scenes to subvert the will of Pakistan's people by trying to dictate the composition of their next coalition government and prop up the election's biggest loser, President Pervez Musharraf. Bush is playing a dangerous game, risking the collapse of Pakistan's political process for the sake of his own legacy.Millions of Pakistanis delivered a clear message at the polls. Collectively, they voted against Musharraf and religious extremists, and in favor of democracy, the rule of law, and good governance.Nationally, no single party received a majority, but the centrist, democratic opposition won more than 70% of the national assembly seats. The Musharraf-allied faction of the Muslim League party (PML-Q) came in third, polling only 15%, despite the assistance of surgical vote-rigging. Most of its senior leaders were defeated in their constituencies - including one who hadn't lost an election in 26 years. The PML-Q, created in 1999 by Pakistan's intelligence agencies, is now political deadwood.An alliance between the two largest parties, the late Benazir Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party (PPP) and Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League faction (PML-N) is what the country needs and what most Pakistanis want. The PPP and PML-N have the numbers to form a unity government. They also realize that this is perhaps their last chance to \"save\" Pakistan.Together with the pro-democracy army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, this coalition can address Pakistan's most pressing challenges, including terrorism. With the addition of smaller parties and independents to the coalition, they can also impeach Musharraf and restore the judiciary, which he had deposed. This is unpalatable to the Bush administration, which has helped keep Musharraf in power, despite the fact that 75% of Pakistanis want him to resign.The Bush administration finds the PML-N's nationalism and antagonism to Musharraf particularly troublesome. Sharif has called for Pakistan's foreign policy to be debated in parliament, but supports continued cooperation with the United States. His party also wants the sacked Supreme Court justices to be restored.The US government, however, endorsed the justice's illegal removal, seeing the court's insistence on constitutional accountability for Musharraf as complicating its regional objectives. The court, for example, required Musharraf to present alleged terror suspects - some of whom were likely \"rendered\" to Pakistan by the CIA - detained for years without government acknowledgment.Of course, a popular, democratically elected government and an independent judiciary in Islamabad complicate relations with the US. Democracy is intrinsically messy, but it won't jeopardise Pakistan's partnership in the war on terror. The Bush administration, however, has become used to dealing with one man and is increasingly impatient. In its final year, it would like to increase the odds of a Republican victory in November's US presidential election. Toward this end, progress in Pakistan and Afghanistan would be highly valuable.As a result, the Bush administration is aggressively interfering in coalition talks between Pakistan's political parties. It wants to pair the PPP with the discredited PML-Q and isolate the PML-N. US Ambassador to Pakistan, Anne Patterson, for example, has held a joint meeting with senior Musharraf advisor, Tariq Aziz, and PPP co-chairman Asif Ali Zardari, Bhutto's widower.Vice-President Dick Cheney's office also is reportedly playing an active role. Zardari, in a joint press conference with Sharif, refused to answer a question about whether there is pressure from the US to ally with Musharraf. But he and Sharif did agree \"in principle\" to form a government.The Bush administration's forceful manipulation of Pakistan's political leadership is dangerous for both Pakistan and the US. Its favoured arrangement could divide the opposition, keep Musharraf ascendant, and provide continuity in the Pakistan army's campaign against militants. But it would also likely de-legitimise the next government before it comes into power, rupture Pakistan's largest political party, and create a nationalist backlash against the US.The US needs to take a step back and let Pakistan's political process proceed naturally. The end result might not be optimal, but if the Bush administration overplays its hand, it could find itself partnerless in Pakistan.In cooperation with Project Syndicate, 2008.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news", "George Bush", "Middle East and North Africa", "US politics"], "title": "Partnerless in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-02-08T00:17:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I can understand that Wajid Shamsul Hasan has concerns about the forthcoming elections in Pakistan (Letters, February 5). But I am not sure it is wise for him to make sweeping generalisations such as \"the elections are already stolen\" and \"rigging and malpractice are everywhere\" without providing substantial evidence.Even before Benazir Bhutto's assassination, these elections were always going to be a serious challenge. For this reason, the EU's election observation team has had over 50 long-term observers in place for many weeks, watching the whole process, including electoral registration and media monitoring. Short-term observers will join them to oversee voting at thousands of polling stations as well as the counts and results announcements.Only then will we be able to state whether the elections have fulfilled President Musharraf's hopes that they will be \"free, fair, transparent and safe\".Robert Evans MEPChair, European parliament election observation mission to Pakistan", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Observing Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-03-23T00:43:51Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's newly elected government will seek to negotiate with Islamic militants and demilitarise the campaign against them to end the violence racking the country, leaders of the major coalition parties who will take power next week have said. The explicit declaration of a desire to talk to extremists and to reduce the role of the army marks a major change for the strategically crucial country and will confirm fears among American policymakers that the heavy defeat of President Pervez Musharraf at recent elections will lead to Pakistan scaling back its support for the US-led 'war on terror' in the region. Pakistan's rugged western frontier is seen as a haven not just for Pakistani militants but also for al-Qaeda and the Taliban and has been the site of fierce combat for several years.This week a new Prime Minister and cabinet is expected to be sworn in in Islamabad, following an accord between opposition parties. The party of assassinated former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto yesterday nominated the former National Assembly speaker Yousaf Raza Gilani as its candidate for premier. The unprecedented 'grand coalition' he is likely to lead is expected to seek ways to permanently remove Musharraf, a loyal US ally who was re-elected president for a five-year term last year, from power.'The Musharraf era and everything that was wrong with that era is now behind us,' said one Pakistani parliamentarian yesterday. 'We are not going to throw the baby out with the [bath] water, but a lot is going to be different.'American policymakers fear that any negotiations will both legitimise the militants in the eyes of the local population and give them time to rearm, re-train and reform. There has been a series of truces with extremist leaders in recent years, many arranged by Pakistani military commanders on the ground despite Washington's opposition.'We do not believe that truces or talks with militants are productive,' one US official in Islamabad told The Observer earlier this year. British diplomats do not dismiss negotiations entirely, but say that the success of talks 'depends on who is talking and about what.'In interviews before the election last month, senior figures in both major coalition parties - Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League and Asif Ali Zardari's Pakistan People's party - said they favoured a less 'military' strategy to counter violence by Islamic extremists. Sharif said he wanted a 'wide-ranging debate' on how to fight violence, though he refused to commit himself to a policy. However, the New York Times yesterday reported the Muslim League leader saying that the militants were part of 'our own people' and explaining that 'when you have a problem in your own family, you don't kill ... you sit and talk'. Asif Ali Zardari, who assumed joint leadership of the PPP after his wife Benazir Bhutto was killed in an bomb and gun attack attributed to the militants in December, told the New York Times that he favoured using talks and a 'beefed-up police force,' saying that 'even a fool knows that ... what they have been doing for the past eight years has not been working'.Decriminalising the fight against the militants is also favoured by the newly elected provincial government in the North West Frontier Province, but may need constitutional amendments to be put into practice.'We are not talking about appeasement but taking a different approach by looking at law enforcement,' said respected analyst Samina Ahmed of the International Crisis Group in Islamabad. 'If you don't enforce the law, you won't get rid of what is an internal problem.'Ahmed pointed out that one problem will be the semi-autonomous status of the 'tribal agencies' where the militants are based. To end their special legal status, the legacy of British colonial government, will not be easy. 'You need courts, police, judges,' he said.Yet any new government in Pakistan has to tread a careful path. Pakistan relies on America for massive aid, particularly to the country's powerful military. Yet most ordinary Pakistanis believe their army is fighting 'someone else's war' and that casualties of the militants' bombs are paying the price.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Pakistan to meet militants"},{"date": "2008-03-21T09:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Like spring flowers, democracy is breaking forth from every pore of Pakistan. On Wednesday the country's newly-elected National Assembly, the lower (and more powerful) house of parliament, voted for the Muslim world's first female speaker. Dr Fehmida Mirza, a nominee of Pakistan People's Party, won more than two-thirds of the votes against her male opponent. A medical professional, and a mother of four, she comes from Badin, one of Pakistan's remotest and most under-developed areas.The symbolism and substance of her victory are noteworthy. For one thing, she is backed by a coalition of parties who contested last month's elections against each other, but later forged an alliance to oust the country's lingering military ruler, general (ret'd) Pervez Musharraf. The number votes in her favour indicates that her backers can begin to purify the country's constitution of the absurd changes that Musharraf sneaked in during his eight-year rule. One change protects him against any accountability of his two-time abrogation of the constitution, which otherwise is treason, punishable by death; another prevents any legal challenge to any of his actions - appointments, transfers, selections, etc - in any of Pakistan's courts.For another thing, she, an authoritative female speaker in a male-dominated legislature, is a perfect counter to the predominant view of Pakistan as a falling domino against a global Talibanisation movement. Her party, whose leader, Ms Benazir Bhutto, the Muslim world's first female prime minister, lost her life to an assassin during her election campaign, is the vanguard of political liberalism in Pakistan. Now it is is joined by a right-of-centre Pakistan Muslim League of former prime minister Nawaz Sharif. He has buried the bloody hatchet with late Ms Bhutto's party and has pledged to a common agenda of building a strong, moderate, democratic Pakistan. Support for the speaker has also come from a far right religious party - Jamiat Ulema Islam (\"Party of the Scholars of Islam\") - which has in the past opposed to the very idea of women in seats of power. Such is the march of new history in Pakistan that even its leader got up to praise the new custodian of the house, assuring her of his party's \"full cooperation and backing\".For a country that has seen women rulers, diplomats, journalists, fighter pilots, scientists, engineers, members of police, armed forces - in short women in every walk of life, having another one in an important position should be an exciting but not ground-breaking development. But a new jolt of energy seemed to go through the national body politic after Dr Fehmida's election because her elevation is seen as a sign of the death of the old debilitating order under Musharraf. It is instructive to note that while the Musharraf spent much effort highlighting his attempts to create a moderate Pakistan, at home he was relentless in trying to break up genuinely moderate political forces. The Peoples Party and the Pakistan Muslim League were his favourite punch-bags. Their leaders were forced out of Pakistan and a combination of coercion and political bribery was used to win over party loyalists to form a hotch-potch of a pro-Musharraf party.Worse, under the table, he encouraged and facilitated conservative religious parties to dominate the centre-stage. Two months ago, General (ret'd) Ehtisham Zamir, one of Musharraf's close aides, unburdened his guilty conscience by admitting that he had been involved in rigging the elections in 2002 upon direct orders from his boss. What Ehsitsham did not say was that he rigged the elections in the North-West Frontier Province, bordering Afghanistan, where religious parties routed secular nationalists - of course with the able help of Musharraf's intelligence sleuths.The people of Pakistan, however, have punched through this fraudulent view of their country. In the latest election, which Musharraf could not steal because of intense international pressure and a nationwide civil society agitation for the rule of law, they have voted overwhelmingly for mature moderates.Religious parties, who were the third largest group in the 2002 elections with 64 seats, are now a poor sixth with five seats. For eight years Musharraf tried to put a demonic paint on Pakistan's face to scare the world into accepting him as the exorcist. But after Dr Fehimda's election the world ought to acknowledge the truth: the real evil in Pakistan always lurked behind the veil of military dictatorship.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Welsh politics", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Springtime for Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-02-25T19:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "President George W Bush rightly called Pakistan's recent national and provincial elections \"a victory for [its] people\". But, even as he uttered those words, his administration was working behind the scenes to subvert the will of Pakistan's people by trying to dictate the composition of their next coalition government and prop up the election's biggest loser, President Pervez Musharraf. Bush is playing a dangerous game, risking the collapse of Pakistan's political process for the sake of his own legacy.Millions of Pakistanis delivered a clear message at the polls. Collectively, they voted against Musharraf and religious extremists, and in favor of democracy, the rule of law, and good governance.Nationally, no single party received a majority, but the centrist, democratic opposition won more than 70% of the national assembly seats. The Musharraf-allied faction of the Muslim League party (PML-Q) came in third, polling only 15%, despite the assistance of surgical vote-rigging. Most of its senior leaders were defeated in their constituencies - including one who hadn't lost an election in 26 years. The PML-Q, created in 1999 by Pakistan's intelligence agencies, is now political deadwood.An alliance between the two largest parties, the late Benazir Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party (PPP) and Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League faction (PML-N) is what the country needs and what most Pakistanis want. The PPP and PML-N have the numbers to form a unity government. They also realize that this is perhaps their last chance to \"save\" Pakistan.Together with the pro-democracy army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, this coalition can address Pakistan's most pressing challenges, including terrorism. With the addition of smaller parties and independents to the coalition, they can also impeach Musharraf and restore the judiciary, which he had deposed. This is unpalatable to the Bush administration, which has helped keep Musharraf in power, despite the fact that 75% of Pakistanis want him to resign.The Bush administration finds the PML-N's nationalism and antagonism to Musharraf particularly troublesome. Sharif has called for Pakistan's foreign policy to be debated in parliament, but supports continued cooperation with the United States. His party also wants the sacked Supreme Court justices to be restored.The US government, however, endorsed the justice's illegal removal, seeing the court's insistence on constitutional accountability for Musharraf as complicating its regional objectives. The court, for example, required Musharraf to present alleged terror suspects - some of whom were likely \"rendered\" to Pakistan by the CIA - detained for years without government acknowledgment.Of course, a popular, democratically elected government and an independent judiciary in Islamabad complicate relations with the US. Democracy is intrinsically messy, but it won't jeopardise Pakistan's partnership in the war on terror. The Bush administration, however, has become used to dealing with one man and is increasingly impatient. In its final year, it would like to increase the odds of a Republican victory in November's US presidential election. Toward this end, progress in Pakistan and Afghanistan would be highly valuable.As a result, the Bush administration is aggressively interfering in coalition talks between Pakistan's political parties. It wants to pair the PPP with the discredited PML-Q and isolate the PML-N. US Ambassador to Pakistan, Anne Patterson, for example, has held a joint meeting with senior Musharraf advisor, Tariq Aziz, and PPP co-chairman Asif Ali Zardari, Bhutto's widower.Vice-President Dick Cheney's office also is reportedly playing an active role. Zardari, in a joint press conference with Sharif, refused to answer a question about whether there is pressure from the US to ally with Musharraf. But he and Sharif did agree \"in principle\" to form a government.The Bush administration's forceful manipulation of Pakistan's political leadership is dangerous for both Pakistan and the US. Its favoured arrangement could divide the opposition, keep Musharraf ascendant, and provide continuity in the Pakistan army's campaign against militants. But it would also likely de-legitimise the next government before it comes into power, rupture Pakistan's largest political party, and create a nationalist backlash against the US.The US needs to take a step back and let Pakistan's political process proceed naturally. The end result might not be optimal, but if the Bush administration overplays its hand, it could find itself partnerless in Pakistan.In cooperation with Project Syndicate, 2008.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news", "George Bush", "Middle East and North Africa", "US politics"], "title": "Partnerless in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-02-20T21:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Election results are in from Pakistan. The late Benazir Bhutto's Pakistani People's Party (PPP) and former prime minister Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz (PML-N) won roughly 40% of the seats each. President Musharraf's Pakistan Muslim League Quaid (PML-Q) barely won 11%. US senators Joe Biden, Chuck Hagel and John Kerry all signed off on the authenticity of the elections, and a suddenly meek Musharraf conceded quickly.A major story in the elections is the rise of the avowedly secular Awami National Party (ANP) in the heavily traditional and conservative North Western Frontier Province. The NWFP, bordering Afghanistan, has long been a stronghold of the hard-line, pro-Taliban clerics, a sort of cudgel with which they beat the rest of the country. In the 2002 elections, the Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal (MMA) - an umbrella of Islamist parties - essentially ran the table in NWFP. The ANP didn't win even one seat. The MMA then used that momentum to try and pass the Hisba Bill, a public morality law based on Saudi Arabia and Iran's virtue police (the supreme court struck it down on constitutional grounds).This time, though, the MMA won only seven out of 96 seats. The ANP won 31, and the left-leaning PPP won 17. As a result of having the majority, the ANP is in a position to form the provincial government.The story of the ANP's resurgence, in the face of blatant intimidation by hard-line groups (ANP leaders were bombed even on election day), is significant.Tarek Fatah, formerly a left-activist in Pakistan, summarizes the ANP's success succinctly:\"Leading up to the elections, the jihadi extremists targeted the ANP and assassinated a number of their candidates. ANP activists - highly visible for wearing their red caps - became the Taliban's primary targets. There was a reason: The Islamists had managed to convince the Pashtun population that their historic national struggle was the same as the international jihad of Osama bin Laden. The ANP, however, stood in opposition to this jihadi ideology. Deeply religious and practising Muslims, ANP supporters have their roots in the kind of secularism where religion and state are kept apart and the use of Islam as a tool of politics is considered an insult to Islam itself.\"A close look at the ANP's platform confirms their political philosophy, which begins with a homage to the party's founder, Bacha Khan, whom the British called Frontier Gandhi. The manifesto highlights the ideas of separation of religion from state as well as the emancipation and empowerment of women. The resurgence of the ANP is also a potent reminder to analysts who tend to characterise Pakistan as constantly on the brink of theocracy to not be so simple-minded. In fact, to people (including me) who were paying attention, the ANP's success is not altogether surprising.The success of the ANP in the face of the Islamist programme is illustrative and instructive. It shows that one way of defeating Islamism is to offer a potent and viable alternative narrative. The ANP does that in the form of Pashtun nationalism. The ANP represents the elevation of local ethnicity over pan-Islamic rhetoric. Their local focus gives them a powerful appeal among people hankering for the essentials of life.ANP's electoral success also suggests an interesting trend within Pakistani politics. It appears that regional parties based on ethnic or linguistic commonalities tend to adhere to secular principles. For example, the MQM, which is essentially a party limited to the city of Karachi, has long been secular in its outlook. (Last year the MQM held a rally of a few hundred thousand people opposing extremism - great pictures). These regional secular parties - in alliance with the secular PPP, which has revealed itself to be Pakistan's only truly national party (it is the only party that won seats in all four provinces) - seemingly creates a massive secular block in Pakistan.These regional parties do have their downside. Aside from the corruption that seems to be rampant no matter what party one belongs to, these parties can be seen as divisive. The ANP, for example, has what is essentially a secessionist clause in its manifesto: \"Federating units which wish to reorganise on the basis of cultural, linguistic and geographic similarities shall be free to do so.\" Many Pashtun people of Pakistan - who became geographically split between Pakistan and Afghanistan when the British left - not only consider the border to be artificial, but essentially meaningless. The ANP has already said that one of the first things it will do upon coming to power is to change NWFP's name to something like Afghania or Pakhtunkhwa. Whether or not this gesture is a harbinger of explicit secession or is simply an exercise in pride remains to be seen.This is why the discussion about Pakistan in western intelligentsia cannot just limit itself to mosque and military. Ethnic and linguistic groups are an immensely powerful force in the country. If the ANP initiative to rebrand the NWFP is successful, it will mean that all four provinces will be named after the dominant ethnicity in the region. The challenge for future Pakistani leaders is to find a way to negotiate these ethnic groups in a conciliatory and respectful way. Historically, this has been nearly impossible for Pakistanis to pull off, and ultimately the problem is one of economic monopolisation by Punjabi interests in the military and industry (as well as the feudal landlords in Sindh and Punjab). Islamists tend to try to use the frustration these oligarchs cause as a way to provide their utopian solutions. However, people are becoming wise to their tricks and trying out other, potentially more results-oriented alternatives.In my opinion, the secular resurgence has far more to do with material concerns than ideological ones. Ordinary Pakistanis didn't vote for the ANP because they suddenly became hip to Thomas Jefferson or because they became persuaded by some blogger in Birmingham. They voted for the ANP because they want clean water. If the ANP fails to deliver the essentials of life - and simply uses nationalism the way Islamists use Islam - then they will be replaced. If western interests want to maintain the secular resurgence, they are going to have to make sure that these groups do not fail. At the moment, though, I don't see any discussion about this in our press.", "tags": ["US news", "Pakistan", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Secular resurgence in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-02-08T00:17:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I can understand that Wajid Shamsul Hasan has concerns about the forthcoming elections in Pakistan (Letters, February 5). But I am not sure it is wise for him to make sweeping generalisations such as \"the elections are already stolen\" and \"rigging and malpractice are everywhere\" without providing substantial evidence.Even before Benazir Bhutto's assassination, these elections were always going to be a serious challenge. For this reason, the EU's election observation team has had over 50 long-term observers in place for many weeks, watching the whole process, including electoral registration and media monitoring. Short-term observers will join them to oversee voting at thousands of polling stations as well as the counts and results announcements.Only then will we be able to state whether the elections have fulfilled President Musharraf's hopes that they will be \"free, fair, transparent and safe\".Robert Evans MEPChair, European parliament election observation mission to Pakistan", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Observing Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-03-23T00:43:51Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's newly elected government will seek to negotiate with Islamic militants and demilitarise the campaign against them to end the violence racking the country, leaders of the major coalition parties who will take power next week have said. The explicit declaration of a desire to talk to extremists and to reduce the role of the army marks a major change for the strategically crucial country and will confirm fears among American policymakers that the heavy defeat of President Pervez Musharraf at recent elections will lead to Pakistan scaling back its support for the US-led 'war on terror' in the region. Pakistan's rugged western frontier is seen as a haven not just for Pakistani militants but also for al-Qaeda and the Taliban and has been the site of fierce combat for several years.This week a new Prime Minister and cabinet is expected to be sworn in in Islamabad, following an accord between opposition parties. The party of assassinated former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto yesterday nominated the former National Assembly speaker Yousaf Raza Gilani as its candidate for premier. The unprecedented 'grand coalition' he is likely to lead is expected to seek ways to permanently remove Musharraf, a loyal US ally who was re-elected president for a five-year term last year, from power.'The Musharraf era and everything that was wrong with that era is now behind us,' said one Pakistani parliamentarian yesterday. 'We are not going to throw the baby out with the [bath] water, but a lot is going to be different.'American policymakers fear that any negotiations will both legitimise the militants in the eyes of the local population and give them time to rearm, re-train and reform. There has been a series of truces with extremist leaders in recent years, many arranged by Pakistani military commanders on the ground despite Washington's opposition.'We do not believe that truces or talks with militants are productive,' one US official in Islamabad told The Observer earlier this year. British diplomats do not dismiss negotiations entirely, but say that the success of talks 'depends on who is talking and about what.'In interviews before the election last month, senior figures in both major coalition parties - Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League and Asif Ali Zardari's Pakistan People's party - said they favoured a less 'military' strategy to counter violence by Islamic extremists. Sharif said he wanted a 'wide-ranging debate' on how to fight violence, though he refused to commit himself to a policy. However, the New York Times yesterday reported the Muslim League leader saying that the militants were part of 'our own people' and explaining that 'when you have a problem in your own family, you don't kill ... you sit and talk'. Asif Ali Zardari, who assumed joint leadership of the PPP after his wife Benazir Bhutto was killed in an bomb and gun attack attributed to the militants in December, told the New York Times that he favoured using talks and a 'beefed-up police force,' saying that 'even a fool knows that ... what they have been doing for the past eight years has not been working'.Decriminalising the fight against the militants is also favoured by the newly elected provincial government in the North West Frontier Province, but may need constitutional amendments to be put into practice.'We are not talking about appeasement but taking a different approach by looking at law enforcement,' said respected analyst Samina Ahmed of the International Crisis Group in Islamabad. 'If you don't enforce the law, you won't get rid of what is an internal problem.'Ahmed pointed out that one problem will be the semi-autonomous status of the 'tribal agencies' where the militants are based. To end their special legal status, the legacy of British colonial government, will not be easy. 'You need courts, police, judges,' he said.Yet any new government in Pakistan has to tread a careful path. Pakistan relies on America for massive aid, particularly to the country's powerful military. Yet most ordinary Pakistanis believe their army is fighting 'someone else's war' and that casualties of the militants' bombs are paying the price.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Pakistan to meet militants"},{"date": "2008-03-21T09:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Like spring flowers, democracy is breaking forth from every pore of Pakistan. On Wednesday the country's newly-elected National Assembly, the lower (and more powerful) house of parliament, voted for the Muslim world's first female speaker. Dr Fehmida Mirza, a nominee of Pakistan People's Party, won more than two-thirds of the votes against her male opponent. A medical professional, and a mother of four, she comes from Badin, one of Pakistan's remotest and most under-developed areas.The symbolism and substance of her victory are noteworthy. For one thing, she is backed by a coalition of parties who contested last month's elections against each other, but later forged an alliance to oust the country's lingering military ruler, general (ret'd) Pervez Musharraf. The number votes in her favour indicates that her backers can begin to purify the country's constitution of the absurd changes that Musharraf sneaked in during his eight-year rule. One change protects him against any accountability of his two-time abrogation of the constitution, which otherwise is treason, punishable by death; another prevents any legal challenge to any of his actions - appointments, transfers, selections, etc - in any of Pakistan's courts.For another thing, she, an authoritative female speaker in a male-dominated legislature, is a perfect counter to the predominant view of Pakistan as a falling domino against a global Talibanisation movement. Her party, whose leader, Ms Benazir Bhutto, the Muslim world's first female prime minister, lost her life to an assassin during her election campaign, is the vanguard of political liberalism in Pakistan. Now it is is joined by a right-of-centre Pakistan Muslim League of former prime minister Nawaz Sharif. He has buried the bloody hatchet with late Ms Bhutto's party and has pledged to a common agenda of building a strong, moderate, democratic Pakistan. Support for the speaker has also come from a far right religious party - Jamiat Ulema Islam (\"Party of the Scholars of Islam\") - which has in the past opposed to the very idea of women in seats of power. Such is the march of new history in Pakistan that even its leader got up to praise the new custodian of the house, assuring her of his party's \"full cooperation and backing\".For a country that has seen women rulers, diplomats, journalists, fighter pilots, scientists, engineers, members of police, armed forces - in short women in every walk of life, having another one in an important position should be an exciting but not ground-breaking development. But a new jolt of energy seemed to go through the national body politic after Dr Fehmida's election because her elevation is seen as a sign of the death of the old debilitating order under Musharraf. It is instructive to note that while the Musharraf spent much effort highlighting his attempts to create a moderate Pakistan, at home he was relentless in trying to break up genuinely moderate political forces. The Peoples Party and the Pakistan Muslim League were his favourite punch-bags. Their leaders were forced out of Pakistan and a combination of coercion and political bribery was used to win over party loyalists to form a hotch-potch of a pro-Musharraf party.Worse, under the table, he encouraged and facilitated conservative religious parties to dominate the centre-stage. Two months ago, General (ret'd) Ehtisham Zamir, one of Musharraf's close aides, unburdened his guilty conscience by admitting that he had been involved in rigging the elections in 2002 upon direct orders from his boss. What Ehsitsham did not say was that he rigged the elections in the North-West Frontier Province, bordering Afghanistan, where religious parties routed secular nationalists - of course with the able help of Musharraf's intelligence sleuths.The people of Pakistan, however, have punched through this fraudulent view of their country. In the latest election, which Musharraf could not steal because of intense international pressure and a nationwide civil society agitation for the rule of law, they have voted overwhelmingly for mature moderates.Religious parties, who were the third largest group in the 2002 elections with 64 seats, are now a poor sixth with five seats. For eight years Musharraf tried to put a demonic paint on Pakistan's face to scare the world into accepting him as the exorcist. But after Dr Fehimda's election the world ought to acknowledge the truth: the real evil in Pakistan always lurked behind the veil of military dictatorship.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Welsh politics", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Springtime for Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-02-25T19:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "President George W Bush rightly called Pakistan's recent national and provincial elections \"a victory for [its] people\". But, even as he uttered those words, his administration was working behind the scenes to subvert the will of Pakistan's people by trying to dictate the composition of their next coalition government and prop up the election's biggest loser, President Pervez Musharraf. Bush is playing a dangerous game, risking the collapse of Pakistan's political process for the sake of his own legacy.Millions of Pakistanis delivered a clear message at the polls. Collectively, they voted against Musharraf and religious extremists, and in favor of democracy, the rule of law, and good governance.Nationally, no single party received a majority, but the centrist, democratic opposition won more than 70% of the national assembly seats. The Musharraf-allied faction of the Muslim League party (PML-Q) came in third, polling only 15%, despite the assistance of surgical vote-rigging. Most of its senior leaders were defeated in their constituencies - including one who hadn't lost an election in 26 years. The PML-Q, created in 1999 by Pakistan's intelligence agencies, is now political deadwood.An alliance between the two largest parties, the late Benazir Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party (PPP) and Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League faction (PML-N) is what the country needs and what most Pakistanis want. The PPP and PML-N have the numbers to form a unity government. They also realize that this is perhaps their last chance to \"save\" Pakistan.Together with the pro-democracy army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, this coalition can address Pakistan's most pressing challenges, including terrorism. With the addition of smaller parties and independents to the coalition, they can also impeach Musharraf and restore the judiciary, which he had deposed. This is unpalatable to the Bush administration, which has helped keep Musharraf in power, despite the fact that 75% of Pakistanis want him to resign.The Bush administration finds the PML-N's nationalism and antagonism to Musharraf particularly troublesome. Sharif has called for Pakistan's foreign policy to be debated in parliament, but supports continued cooperation with the United States. His party also wants the sacked Supreme Court justices to be restored.The US government, however, endorsed the justice's illegal removal, seeing the court's insistence on constitutional accountability for Musharraf as complicating its regional objectives. The court, for example, required Musharraf to present alleged terror suspects - some of whom were likely \"rendered\" to Pakistan by the CIA - detained for years without government acknowledgment.Of course, a popular, democratically elected government and an independent judiciary in Islamabad complicate relations with the US. Democracy is intrinsically messy, but it won't jeopardise Pakistan's partnership in the war on terror. The Bush administration, however, has become used to dealing with one man and is increasingly impatient. In its final year, it would like to increase the odds of a Republican victory in November's US presidential election. Toward this end, progress in Pakistan and Afghanistan would be highly valuable.As a result, the Bush administration is aggressively interfering in coalition talks between Pakistan's political parties. It wants to pair the PPP with the discredited PML-Q and isolate the PML-N. US Ambassador to Pakistan, Anne Patterson, for example, has held a joint meeting with senior Musharraf advisor, Tariq Aziz, and PPP co-chairman Asif Ali Zardari, Bhutto's widower.Vice-President Dick Cheney's office also is reportedly playing an active role. Zardari, in a joint press conference with Sharif, refused to answer a question about whether there is pressure from the US to ally with Musharraf. But he and Sharif did agree \"in principle\" to form a government.The Bush administration's forceful manipulation of Pakistan's political leadership is dangerous for both Pakistan and the US. Its favoured arrangement could divide the opposition, keep Musharraf ascendant, and provide continuity in the Pakistan army's campaign against militants. But it would also likely de-legitimise the next government before it comes into power, rupture Pakistan's largest political party, and create a nationalist backlash against the US.The US needs to take a step back and let Pakistan's political process proceed naturally. The end result might not be optimal, but if the Bush administration overplays its hand, it could find itself partnerless in Pakistan.In cooperation with Project Syndicate, 2008.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news", "George Bush", "Middle East and North Africa", "US politics"], "title": "Partnerless in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-02-20T21:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Election results are in from Pakistan. The late Benazir Bhutto's Pakistani People's Party (PPP) and former prime minister Nawaz Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz (PML-N) won roughly 40% of the seats each. President Musharraf's Pakistan Muslim League Quaid (PML-Q) barely won 11%. US senators Joe Biden, Chuck Hagel and John Kerry all signed off on the authenticity of the elections, and a suddenly meek Musharraf conceded quickly.A major story in the elections is the rise of the avowedly secular Awami National Party (ANP) in the heavily traditional and conservative North Western Frontier Province. The NWFP, bordering Afghanistan, has long been a stronghold of the hard-line, pro-Taliban clerics, a sort of cudgel with which they beat the rest of the country. In the 2002 elections, the Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal (MMA) - an umbrella of Islamist parties - essentially ran the table in NWFP. The ANP didn't win even one seat. The MMA then used that momentum to try and pass the Hisba Bill, a public morality law based on Saudi Arabia and Iran's virtue police (the supreme court struck it down on constitutional grounds).This time, though, the MMA won only seven out of 96 seats. The ANP won 31, and the left-leaning PPP won 17. As a result of having the majority, the ANP is in a position to form the provincial government.The story of the ANP's resurgence, in the face of blatant intimidation by hard-line groups (ANP leaders were bombed even on election day), is significant.Tarek Fatah, formerly a left-activist in Pakistan, summarizes the ANP's success succinctly:\"Leading up to the elections, the jihadi extremists targeted the ANP and assassinated a number of their candidates. ANP activists - highly visible for wearing their red caps - became the Taliban's primary targets. There was a reason: The Islamists had managed to convince the Pashtun population that their historic national struggle was the same as the international jihad of Osama bin Laden. The ANP, however, stood in opposition to this jihadi ideology. Deeply religious and practising Muslims, ANP supporters have their roots in the kind of secularism where religion and state are kept apart and the use of Islam as a tool of politics is considered an insult to Islam itself.\"A close look at the ANP's platform confirms their political philosophy, which begins with a homage to the party's founder, Bacha Khan, whom the British called Frontier Gandhi. The manifesto highlights the ideas of separation of religion from state as well as the emancipation and empowerment of women. The resurgence of the ANP is also a potent reminder to analysts who tend to characterise Pakistan as constantly on the brink of theocracy to not be so simple-minded. In fact, to people (including me) who were paying attention, the ANP's success is not altogether surprising.The success of the ANP in the face of the Islamist programme is illustrative and instructive. It shows that one way of defeating Islamism is to offer a potent and viable alternative narrative. The ANP does that in the form of Pashtun nationalism. The ANP represents the elevation of local ethnicity over pan-Islamic rhetoric. Their local focus gives them a powerful appeal among people hankering for the essentials of life.ANP's electoral success also suggests an interesting trend within Pakistani politics. It appears that regional parties based on ethnic or linguistic commonalities tend to adhere to secular principles. For example, the MQM, which is essentially a party limited to the city of Karachi, has long been secular in its outlook. (Last year the MQM held a rally of a few hundred thousand people opposing extremism - great pictures). These regional secular parties - in alliance with the secular PPP, which has revealed itself to be Pakistan's only truly national party (it is the only party that won seats in all four provinces) - seemingly creates a massive secular block in Pakistan.These regional parties do have their downside. Aside from the corruption that seems to be rampant no matter what party one belongs to, these parties can be seen as divisive. The ANP, for example, has what is essentially a secessionist clause in its manifesto: \"Federating units which wish to reorganise on the basis of cultural, linguistic and geographic similarities shall be free to do so.\" Many Pashtun people of Pakistan - who became geographically split between Pakistan and Afghanistan when the British left - not only consider the border to be artificial, but essentially meaningless. The ANP has already said that one of the first things it will do upon coming to power is to change NWFP's name to something like Afghania or Pakhtunkhwa. Whether or not this gesture is a harbinger of explicit secession or is simply an exercise in pride remains to be seen.This is why the discussion about Pakistan in western intelligentsia cannot just limit itself to mosque and military. Ethnic and linguistic groups are an immensely powerful force in the country. If the ANP initiative to rebrand the NWFP is successful, it will mean that all four provinces will be named after the dominant ethnicity in the region. The challenge for future Pakistani leaders is to find a way to negotiate these ethnic groups in a conciliatory and respectful way. Historically, this has been nearly impossible for Pakistanis to pull off, and ultimately the problem is one of economic monopolisation by Punjabi interests in the military and industry (as well as the feudal landlords in Sindh and Punjab). Islamists tend to try to use the frustration these oligarchs cause as a way to provide their utopian solutions. However, people are becoming wise to their tricks and trying out other, potentially more results-oriented alternatives.In my opinion, the secular resurgence has far more to do with material concerns than ideological ones. Ordinary Pakistanis didn't vote for the ANP because they suddenly became hip to Thomas Jefferson or because they became persuaded by some blogger in Birmingham. They voted for the ANP because they want clean water. If the ANP fails to deliver the essentials of life - and simply uses nationalism the way Islamists use Islam - then they will be replaced. If western interests want to maintain the secular resurgence, they are going to have to make sure that these groups do not fail. At the moment, though, I don't see any discussion about this in our press.", "tags": ["US news", "Pakistan", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Secular resurgence in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-02-20T09:11:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Coalition-partner courting went late into the night and will continue today. With even the small party that won significant victories over Islamists being considered a potential coalition member, it's difficult to keep tabs on whose mercedes has drawn up outside which politician's villa to discuss the coalition. We'll keep trying. Scroll down and refresh for updates.9:45amMusharraf had been praised for a dignified acceptance yesterday of his party's trouncing. This morning he's a little less humble. His spokesman confirms that he intends to serve out his five year term as head of state and will not step down.A job for Musharraf may be the first impasse Sharif and Zardari encounter when they meet shortly (they are due to meet now but repeated reports of this have proved hasty). Sharif wants to reinstate the judiciary that Musharraf sacked and have them decide on his fate - namely deciding whether the manner in which he secured his re-election as president last autumn was legal. Zardari, by contrast, has more time for the president. Zardari and Musharraf met last night. If the two victorious politicians do have their meeting this morning, we'll see if the Musharraf problem is a deal breaker. 10amThe British papers are full of advice for Pakistan's politicians. The Times' foreign editor's verdict is that \"Musharraf is finished, he should copy Castro and quit\". She thinks that Zardari should be cautious of Sharif, who may still be sympathetic to Islamist parties.The Guardian's editorial thinks that if Zardari follows the advice of America to give Musharraf a role, it could risk splitting the PPP. 10:30amThe Dawn's blog puts psephology to one side. \"The news of the MMA's spectacular fall from grace will be especially appreciated by music and dance lovers across the North West Frontier Province\". The MMA had banned music and dance... the Awami National Party now in power will reverse this. 11:05amGeorge Bush has spoken. And he's pleased. Asked at a news conference in Accra, Ghana what he thought of developments in Pakistan he said, \"there were elections held that have been judged as being fair, and the people have spoken. I view that as a significant victory.\"11:15amAnd not ten minutes later bouquets of congratulations arrive from the East - well, comments posted on a Chinese government website actually, but warm wishes nonetheless. Pakistan is a long time China ally. China invests and ehem, trades in arms with Pakistan... in return Pakistan has backed China's fight against Muslims in its western Xinjiang region, some of whom are thought to be trained in lawless areas of Pakistan. The PPP-led coalition, if and when it is formed, will be needed by Beijing to keep an eye on this. 11:45amFor all the breeziness of Bush this morning - he said \"it's now time for the newly elected folks to show up and form their government,\" teeth maestro  reports the US Embassy in Islamabad has just hosted a meeting between Zardari and representatives of Musharraf's PML-Q. An unsubstantiated line to emerge from the same source is that the Americans are irked by Sharif's PML-N for their bullish opposition to Musharraf. The source / rumour merchant says America is \"working to put them in opposition\". 12:15pmSharif wants the judges reinstated to decide on Musharraf, we don't yet know what Zardari would do. Well, one of the detained judges - Aitzaz Ahsan - cooped up in his Lahore home for three months, has just said that unless he and his colleagues are reinstated before March 9, they will march on Islamabad. 1pmThe EU election monitors have just delivered their verdict at a press conference in Pakistan. They say the elections were \"better than expected\" but \"there was not a level playing field. It was a field that benefited the ruling party\". 1:20pmSo a former Pakistani cabinet minister has blamed the PML-Q's removal from power on public anger over food and energy shortages. He stopped short of a Marie Antoinette 'let them eat cake'... but the political gauchness is still striking.", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan"], "title": "Elections in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-27T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"Pakistan is in a leaderless drift four months after elections\", concluded Carlotta Gall in the New York Times on June 24. Just two days later, comes news that \"Baitullah Mehsud, the head of the Pakistani Taliban\" has killed 22 members of an intermediary peace committee between the State of Pakistan and Mehsud. I guess there are some leaders in Pakistan, after all. Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" in the northwestern rural regions and the stalled lawyer's movement in the major cities appear, at first glance, to reflect a deep chasm within Pakistani society. This division, if one should call it anything, is routinely understood as a manifestation of moderate v extreme Islam. But that raises the question of why it manifests itself along rural/urban, and class lines.Extremist ideology, as we have learned in the last 8 years, is just as prone to attract highly-educated members of the professional class as unemployed, frustrated youth. We have to delve deeper into Pakistan's recent past if we are to understand the crisis it faces at the present. Sub-continental history is dotted with intermittent mass movement of people \u2013 usually triggered by famine, war or worse \u2013 replete with attendant tales of distress and misery. In my reckoning, the early 1970s saw the another key migration that has so far received little analysis. It involved vast numbers of men from the rural and semi-urban parts of Pakistan moving to the emerging oil-based oligarchies in the Gulf.This economic migration created a backflow of liquid capital to these same villages and towns in Punjab, Sindh and the Northwest Frontier Province. But it also provided a unique vehicle for the transferring of the various strains of Muslim experience into the rather stilted one, currently on everyone's lips \u2013 Wahhabism. Between 1975 and 1985, the number of Pakistanis in the Gulf states rose from 205,000 to 446,000, with over $2.5bn flowing back annually. At its height in the mid-1980s, nearly 10% of Pakistan's adult male workforce was employed in the Gulf states.These migrant workers \u2013 over 80% were unskilled or semi-skilled \u2013 usually lasted about 4-6 years in the Gulf states and were replaced by other family, clan, tribe or village members. What they sent home \u2013 goods and cash \u2013 were the dominant factor in bolstering the Pakistani economy throughout the 1970s and 1980s and one of the key factors in Pakistan's turn towards western Asia under Bhutto and Zia ul-Haq. The migration cooled down during the 1990s but since 2000 there has been an increase the flow of workers. Currently, Pakistani workers are heavily employed in Dubai, Kuwait and Iraq. This large-scale migration to the Middle East had significant effects on local economies and production cycles but perhaps more importantly, it has had a sociocultural impact on Pakistan. Just as significant was the religiosity that came back with the workers. Historically speaking, the Wahhabi reading of Islam had found little purchase on the subcontinent. Mainly because Wahhabi ideology is at odds with practices in Pakistani culture, which cherished its sufi saints. However, this migration allowed a vast population to unlearn their \"decadent\" and \"deviant\" practices from the \"pure practitioners\" in Saudi Arabia, Qatar or the Emirates. In the southern valleys and northern mountains dupattas were replaced with burkas and sufi shrines with madrasas. This cultural turn dovetailed with Zia ul-Haq's policies of Sunnification and the selling of jihad as a necessary commodity to the Pakistani people.Palestine, Chechnya and Kashmir became the de-facto topics at every Friday sermon from Doha and Riyadh to Dera Ghazi Khan and Rawalpindi. However, this Wahhabisation, which included a stricter, more literal interpretation of Qur'an, the demonisation of non-believers, antisemitic rhetoric, racism, the desire to \"fund\" jihads and so on, was never a straightforward process of important. Its progress was gradual and organic in a way that slowly de-legitimised established practices while distorting others: the spiritual guide was transformed into one who cast, or fought, black magic.It is hard to find a household, a conversation, in current day Pakistan that is free of such concerns. The practitioners combine the zeal of the Wahhabi imam with the bank-teller's command of charges due: $10 for the destruction of a marriage, $20 for an incantation for a ruined libido. All wrapped in literal reading of Qur'anic text.One cannot go further in examining this process of Wahhabisation without taking into account the impact of this migration of fathers on their families back home. What are the attitudes of this particular generation X towards the state? Can we really begin to look at the success or failure of the lawyer's movement without examining the Gulf Migration? Can we really talk about democracy without taking into account the roles of millions of Pakistanis as second or third rate citizens, with no rights in law as a person, in Gulf states? While many of us attempt to understand modern Pakistan in terms of political theory, or the appeal of fundamentalism in terms of theology neither of these approaches have proven fruitful. It is time that we broadened our scope of inquiry \u2013 to examine carefully labour and migration, civil and social structures, law and order, human rights and the effect they have on the many peoples of Pakistan.", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The Wahhabisation of Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-27T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"Pakistan is in a leaderless drift four months after elections\", concluded Carlotta Gall in the New York Times on June 24. Just two days later, comes news that \"Baitullah Mehsud, the head of the Pakistani Taliban\" has killed 22 members of an intermediary peace committee between the State of Pakistan and Mehsud. I guess there are some leaders in Pakistan, after all. Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" in the northwestern rural regions and the stalled lawyer's movement in the major cities appear, at first glance, to reflect a deep chasm within Pakistani society. This division, if one should call it anything, is routinely understood as a manifestation of moderate v extreme Islam. But that raises the question of why it manifests itself along rural/urban, and class lines.Extremist ideology, as we have learned in the last 8 years, is just as prone to attract highly-educated members of the professional class as unemployed, frustrated youth. We have to delve deeper into Pakistan's recent past if we are to understand the crisis it faces at the present. Sub-continental history is dotted with intermittent mass movement of people \u2013 usually triggered by famine, war or worse \u2013 replete with attendant tales of distress and misery. In my reckoning, the early 1970s saw the another key migration that has so far received little analysis. It involved vast numbers of men from the rural and semi-urban parts of Pakistan moving to the emerging oil-based oligarchies in the Gulf.This economic migration created a backflow of liquid capital to these same villages and towns in Punjab, Sindh and the Northwest Frontier Province. But it also provided a unique vehicle for the transferring of the various strains of Muslim experience into the rather stilted one, currently on everyone's lips \u2013 Wahhabism. Between 1975 and 1985, the number of Pakistanis in the Gulf states rose from 205,000 to 446,000, with over $2.5bn flowing back annually. At its height in the mid-1980s, nearly 10% of Pakistan's adult male workforce was employed in the Gulf states.These migrant workers \u2013 over 80% were unskilled or semi-skilled \u2013 usually lasted about 4-6 years in the Gulf states and were replaced by other family, clan, tribe or village members. What they sent home \u2013 goods and cash \u2013 were the dominant factor in bolstering the Pakistani economy throughout the 1970s and 1980s and one of the key factors in Pakistan's turn towards western Asia under Bhutto and Zia ul-Haq. The migration cooled down during the 1990s but since 2000 there has been an increase the flow of workers. Currently, Pakistani workers are heavily employed in Dubai, Kuwait and Iraq. This large-scale migration to the Middle East had significant effects on local economies and production cycles but perhaps more importantly, it has had a sociocultural impact on Pakistan. Just as significant was the religiosity that came back with the workers. Historically speaking, the Wahhabi reading of Islam had found little purchase on the subcontinent. Mainly because Wahhabi ideology is at odds with practices in Pakistani culture, which cherished its sufi saints. However, this migration allowed a vast population to unlearn their \"decadent\" and \"deviant\" practices from the \"pure practitioners\" in Saudi Arabia, Qatar or the Emirates. In the southern valleys and northern mountains dupattas were replaced with burkas and sufi shrines with madrasas. This cultural turn dovetailed with Zia ul-Haq's policies of Sunnification and the selling of jihad as a necessary commodity to the Pakistani people.Palestine, Chechnya and Kashmir became the de-facto topics at every Friday sermon from Doha and Riyadh to Dera Ghazi Khan and Rawalpindi. However, this Wahhabisation, which included a stricter, more literal interpretation of Qur'an, the demonisation of non-believers, antisemitic rhetoric, racism, the desire to \"fund\" jihads and so on, was never a straightforward process of important. Its progress was gradual and organic in a way that slowly de-legitimised established practices while distorting others: the spiritual guide was transformed into one who cast, or fought, black magic.It is hard to find a household, a conversation, in current day Pakistan that is free of such concerns. The practitioners combine the zeal of the Wahhabi imam with the bank-teller's command of charges due: $10 for the destruction of a marriage, $20 for an incantation for a ruined libido. All wrapped in literal reading of Qur'anic text.One cannot go further in examining this process of Wahhabisation without taking into account the impact of this migration of fathers on their families back home. What are the attitudes of this particular generation X towards the state? Can we really begin to look at the success or failure of the lawyer's movement without examining the Gulf Migration? Can we really talk about democracy without taking into account the roles of millions of Pakistanis as second or third rate citizens, with no rights in law as a person, in Gulf states? While many of us attempt to understand modern Pakistan in terms of political theory, or the appeal of fundamentalism in terms of theology neither of these approaches have proven fruitful. It is time that we broadened our scope of inquiry \u2013 to examine carefully labour and migration, civil and social structures, law and order, human rights and the effect they have on the many peoples of Pakistan.", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The Wahhabisation of Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-21T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Frontier Corps has been heavily infiltrated and influenced by Taliban militants, sometimes joining in attacks on coalition forces, according to classified US 'after-action' reports compiled following clashes on the border.According to those familiar with the material, regarded as deeply sensitive by the Pentagon in view of America's fragile relationship with Pakistan, there are 'box loads' of such reports at US bases along the length of the Pakistan-Afghan border. Details of the level of infiltration emerged yesterday on a day when five more US-led soldiers were killed in southern Afghanistan. Four of the soldiers died in a bomb and gunfire attack outside the southern city of Kandahar.Nato officials have reported a dramatic increase in cross-border incidents compared with the same period last year. The US documents describe the direct involvement of Frontier Corps troops in attacks on the Afghan National Army and coalition forces, and also detail attacks launched so close to Frontier Corps outposts that Pakistani co-operation with the Taliban is assumed. 'The reality,' said a source familiar with the situation on the ground, 'is that there are units so opposed to what the coalition is doing and so friendly to the other side that when the opportunity comes up they will fire on Afghan and coalition troops. And this is not random. It can be exceptionally well co-ordinated.'Another source - who has seen the reporting - described an attack last year where two Frontier Corps outposts appear to have been directly involved in firing on Afghan forces before a militant attack. Frontier Corps personnel have in the past been implicated in the past in murdering US and Afghan officers. In the most high-profile case, a Frontier Corps member 'assassinated' Major Larry J Bauguess during a border mediation meeting. In another incident, an Afghan officer was killed. Since then the problem appears to have worsened as the Taliban renew their insurgency on the Afghan side of the border.'The United States and Nato have substantial information on this problem,' said an American official. 'It's taking place at a variety of places along the border with the Frontier Corps giving direct and indirect assistance. I'm not saying it is everyone. There are some parts that have been quite helpful... but if you have seen the after-action reports of their involvement in attacks along the Afghan border you would appreciate the problem.'James Appathurai, a Nato spokesman, said: 'The real concern is that the extremists in Pakistan are getting safe havens to rest, recuperate and retool in Pakistan and come across the border. The concerns have been conveyed to the Pakistan authorities.'Seth Jones, author of the Rand report, which found evidence of collaboration, said the issue had been troubling the US even before the invasion of Afghanistan: 'If you go back a decade to the Clinton administration when the US targeted militant camps, members of the Pakistani intelligence services were killed along with militants.' The allegation that senior Pakistani officials continue to offer lukewarm assistance to the coalition while offering help to the Taliban is also reiterated in Descent into Chaos, a new book by the veteran Pakistani author Ahmed Rashid.Relations between the US and Pakistan were strained this month when 11 members of the Frontier Corps were killed when the US allegedly bombed their outpost near the border town of Gora Prai during a gun battle with militants on the border. Pakistani sources have questioned why the troops were hiding in a bunker in the midst of the battle and why they were 'unaware' of an hour-long firefight going on so close by.The issue of the Taliban's ability to cross and recross the border with Pakistan into that country's Federally Administered Tribal Areas is becoming one of the most contentious issues of the war, with many - including Afghan President Hamid Karzai - insisting that his country is involved in a 'regional conflict' and threatening to send troops across the border.The death of the five soldiers yesterday came as the Taliban stepped up their offensive. It happened a day after two other US-led soldiers died in separate incidents, including a suicide bombing.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan troops 'aid Taliban'"},{"date": "2008-06-27T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"Pakistan is in a leaderless drift four months after elections\", concluded Carlotta Gall in the New York Times on June 24. Just two days later, comes news that \"Baitullah Mehsud, the head of the Pakistani Taliban\" has killed 22 members of an intermediary peace committee between the State of Pakistan and Mehsud. I guess there are some leaders in Pakistan, after all. Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" in the northwestern rural regions and the stalled lawyer's movement in the major cities appear, at first glance, to reflect a deep chasm within Pakistani society. This division, if one should call it anything, is routinely understood as a manifestation of moderate v extreme Islam. But that raises the question of why it manifests itself along rural/urban, and class lines.Extremist ideology, as we have learned in the last 8 years, is just as prone to attract highly-educated members of the professional class as unemployed, frustrated youth. We have to delve deeper into Pakistan's recent past if we are to understand the crisis it faces at the present. Sub-continental history is dotted with intermittent mass movement of people \u2013 usually triggered by famine, war or worse \u2013 replete with attendant tales of distress and misery. In my reckoning, the early 1970s saw the another key migration that has so far received little analysis. It involved vast numbers of men from the rural and semi-urban parts of Pakistan moving to the emerging oil-based oligarchies in the Gulf.This economic migration created a backflow of liquid capital to these same villages and towns in Punjab, Sindh and the Northwest Frontier Province. But it also provided a unique vehicle for the transferring of the various strains of Muslim experience into the rather stilted one, currently on everyone's lips \u2013 Wahhabism. Between 1975 and 1985, the number of Pakistanis in the Gulf states rose from 205,000 to 446,000, with over $2.5bn flowing back annually. At its height in the mid-1980s, nearly 10% of Pakistan's adult male workforce was employed in the Gulf states.These migrant workers \u2013 over 80% were unskilled or semi-skilled \u2013 usually lasted about 4-6 years in the Gulf states and were replaced by other family, clan, tribe or village members. What they sent home \u2013 goods and cash \u2013 were the dominant factor in bolstering the Pakistani economy throughout the 1970s and 1980s and one of the key factors in Pakistan's turn towards western Asia under Bhutto and Zia ul-Haq. The migration cooled down during the 1990s but since 2000 there has been an increase the flow of workers. Currently, Pakistani workers are heavily employed in Dubai, Kuwait and Iraq. This large-scale migration to the Middle East had significant effects on local economies and production cycles but perhaps more importantly, it has had a sociocultural impact on Pakistan. Just as significant was the religiosity that came back with the workers. Historically speaking, the Wahhabi reading of Islam had found little purchase on the subcontinent. Mainly because Wahhabi ideology is at odds with practices in Pakistani culture, which cherished its sufi saints. However, this migration allowed a vast population to unlearn their \"decadent\" and \"deviant\" practices from the \"pure practitioners\" in Saudi Arabia, Qatar or the Emirates. In the southern valleys and northern mountains dupattas were replaced with burkas and sufi shrines with madrasas. This cultural turn dovetailed with Zia ul-Haq's policies of Sunnification and the selling of jihad as a necessary commodity to the Pakistani people.Palestine, Chechnya and Kashmir became the de-facto topics at every Friday sermon from Doha and Riyadh to Dera Ghazi Khan and Rawalpindi. However, this Wahhabisation, which included a stricter, more literal interpretation of Qur'an, the demonisation of non-believers, antisemitic rhetoric, racism, the desire to \"fund\" jihads and so on, was never a straightforward process of important. Its progress was gradual and organic in a way that slowly de-legitimised established practices while distorting others: the spiritual guide was transformed into one who cast, or fought, black magic.It is hard to find a household, a conversation, in current day Pakistan that is free of such concerns. The practitioners combine the zeal of the Wahhabi imam with the bank-teller's command of charges due: $10 for the destruction of a marriage, $20 for an incantation for a ruined libido. All wrapped in literal reading of Qur'anic text.One cannot go further in examining this process of Wahhabisation without taking into account the impact of this migration of fathers on their families back home. What are the attitudes of this particular generation X towards the state? Can we really begin to look at the success or failure of the lawyer's movement without examining the Gulf Migration? Can we really talk about democracy without taking into account the roles of millions of Pakistanis as second or third rate citizens, with no rights in law as a person, in Gulf states? While many of us attempt to understand modern Pakistan in terms of political theory, or the appeal of fundamentalism in terms of theology neither of these approaches have proven fruitful. It is time that we broadened our scope of inquiry \u2013 to examine carefully labour and migration, civil and social structures, law and order, human rights and the effect they have on the many peoples of Pakistan.", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The Wahhabisation of Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-21T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Frontier Corps has been heavily infiltrated and influenced by Taliban militants, sometimes joining in attacks on coalition forces, according to classified US 'after-action' reports compiled following clashes on the border.According to those familiar with the material, regarded as deeply sensitive by the Pentagon in view of America's fragile relationship with Pakistan, there are 'box loads' of such reports at US bases along the length of the Pakistan-Afghan border. Details of the level of infiltration emerged yesterday on a day when five more US-led soldiers were killed in southern Afghanistan. Four of the soldiers died in a bomb and gunfire attack outside the southern city of Kandahar.Nato officials have reported a dramatic increase in cross-border incidents compared with the same period last year. The US documents describe the direct involvement of Frontier Corps troops in attacks on the Afghan National Army and coalition forces, and also detail attacks launched so close to Frontier Corps outposts that Pakistani co-operation with the Taliban is assumed. 'The reality,' said a source familiar with the situation on the ground, 'is that there are units so opposed to what the coalition is doing and so friendly to the other side that when the opportunity comes up they will fire on Afghan and coalition troops. And this is not random. It can be exceptionally well co-ordinated.'Another source - who has seen the reporting - described an attack last year where two Frontier Corps outposts appear to have been directly involved in firing on Afghan forces before a militant attack. Frontier Corps personnel have in the past been implicated in the past in murdering US and Afghan officers. In the most high-profile case, a Frontier Corps member 'assassinated' Major Larry J Bauguess during a border mediation meeting. In another incident, an Afghan officer was killed. Since then the problem appears to have worsened as the Taliban renew their insurgency on the Afghan side of the border.'The United States and Nato have substantial information on this problem,' said an American official. 'It's taking place at a variety of places along the border with the Frontier Corps giving direct and indirect assistance. I'm not saying it is everyone. There are some parts that have been quite helpful... but if you have seen the after-action reports of their involvement in attacks along the Afghan border you would appreciate the problem.'James Appathurai, a Nato spokesman, said: 'The real concern is that the extremists in Pakistan are getting safe havens to rest, recuperate and retool in Pakistan and come across the border. The concerns have been conveyed to the Pakistan authorities.'Seth Jones, author of the Rand report, which found evidence of collaboration, said the issue had been troubling the US even before the invasion of Afghanistan: 'If you go back a decade to the Clinton administration when the US targeted militant camps, members of the Pakistani intelligence services were killed along with militants.' The allegation that senior Pakistani officials continue to offer lukewarm assistance to the coalition while offering help to the Taliban is also reiterated in Descent into Chaos, a new book by the veteran Pakistani author Ahmed Rashid.Relations between the US and Pakistan were strained this month when 11 members of the Frontier Corps were killed when the US allegedly bombed their outpost near the border town of Gora Prai during a gun battle with militants on the border. Pakistani sources have questioned why the troops were hiding in a bunker in the midst of the battle and why they were 'unaware' of an hour-long firefight going on so close by.The issue of the Taliban's ability to cross and recross the border with Pakistan into that country's Federally Administered Tribal Areas is becoming one of the most contentious issues of the war, with many - including Afghan President Hamid Karzai - insisting that his country is involved in a 'regional conflict' and threatening to send troops across the border.The death of the five soldiers yesterday came as the Taliban stepped up their offensive. It happened a day after two other US-led soldiers died in separate incidents, including a suicide bombing.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan troops 'aid Taliban'"},{"date": "2008-06-20T16:06:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's ruling party has ratcheted up pressure on President Pervez Musharraf to quit by declaring it would soon announce a successor.Asif Ali Zardari, leader of the Pakistan People's party, told supporters the new president would continue the legacy of his assassinated wife, Benazir Bhutto.\"The day is not far off, my brothers and sisters, when this gathering will be held in the president's house and God willing, your president will be sworn in and he will raise the slogan of 'long live Bhutto',\" he said. But Zardari did not say how he would remove Musharraf, and a meeting on the issue with his uneasy coalition partner Nawaz Sharif today failed to produce any agreement. Musharraf's fate has become a matter of near daily speculation. In theory he will be in office until 2012, but since his party was trounced in elections in February he has battled against an unremitting chorus of resignation calls. Most analysts say his demise is a matter of weeks or months \u2013 the question is whether he will jump or be pushed.Musharraf insists he will neither resign nor allow himself to be turned into a \"useless vegetable\" - a reference to plans to strip him of his powers. He has dared the government to impeach him in parliament, knowing that it lacks the required majority. The president's confidence stems from the support of two key allies - the army and the US president, George Bush, whose administration wants to protect its battered Pakistan policy in the run up to the autumn presidential elections. The obsession with Musharraf's fate has dominated politics at a time of pressing needs \u2013 the economy is nosediving and the country faces an unprecedented threat from Taliban militants \u2013 and it has fractured the fragile coalition government. Initial attempts by Zardari to coax Musharraf from office cost him popularity points among an impatient public. Meanwhile Sharif, who denounced Musharraf at every opportunity, has seen his profile rise. As a result the PPP recently aligned its policy with Sharif's by calling for Musharraf to be tried for treason - a crime that carries the death penalty. But as today's meeting in Lahore proved, the issue of how to oust him remains problematic. Efforts at unity are complicated by a related controversy over whether to restore about 45 judges fired by Musharraf last November. Sharif has pulled his ministers from cabinet in protest at the PPP's failure to reinstate the judges \u2013 including Musharraf's nemesis, the former chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. After today's talks a Sharif aide said that \"one or two more rounds of talks\" would be held to narrow the differences between the two sides.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan plans Musharraf 'successor'"},{"date": "2008-06-27T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"Pakistan is in a leaderless drift four months after elections\", concluded Carlotta Gall in the New York Times on June 24. Just two days later, comes news that \"Baitullah Mehsud, the head of the Pakistani Taliban\" has killed 22 members of an intermediary peace committee between the State of Pakistan and Mehsud. I guess there are some leaders in Pakistan, after all. Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" in the northwestern rural regions and the stalled lawyer's movement in the major cities appear, at first glance, to reflect a deep chasm within Pakistani society. This division, if one should call it anything, is routinely understood as a manifestation of moderate v extreme Islam. But that raises the question of why it manifests itself along rural/urban, and class lines.Extremist ideology, as we have learned in the last 8 years, is just as prone to attract highly-educated members of the professional class as unemployed, frustrated youth. We have to delve deeper into Pakistan's recent past if we are to understand the crisis it faces at the present. Sub-continental history is dotted with intermittent mass movement of people \u2013 usually triggered by famine, war or worse \u2013 replete with attendant tales of distress and misery. In my reckoning, the early 1970s saw the another key migration that has so far received little analysis. It involved vast numbers of men from the rural and semi-urban parts of Pakistan moving to the emerging oil-based oligarchies in the Gulf.This economic migration created a backflow of liquid capital to these same villages and towns in Punjab, Sindh and the Northwest Frontier Province. But it also provided a unique vehicle for the transferring of the various strains of Muslim experience into the rather stilted one, currently on everyone's lips \u2013 Wahhabism. Between 1975 and 1985, the number of Pakistanis in the Gulf states rose from 205,000 to 446,000, with over $2.5bn flowing back annually. At its height in the mid-1980s, nearly 10% of Pakistan's adult male workforce was employed in the Gulf states.These migrant workers \u2013 over 80% were unskilled or semi-skilled \u2013 usually lasted about 4-6 years in the Gulf states and were replaced by other family, clan, tribe or village members. What they sent home \u2013 goods and cash \u2013 were the dominant factor in bolstering the Pakistani economy throughout the 1970s and 1980s and one of the key factors in Pakistan's turn towards western Asia under Bhutto and Zia ul-Haq. The migration cooled down during the 1990s but since 2000 there has been an increase the flow of workers. Currently, Pakistani workers are heavily employed in Dubai, Kuwait and Iraq. This large-scale migration to the Middle East had significant effects on local economies and production cycles but perhaps more importantly, it has had a sociocultural impact on Pakistan. Just as significant was the religiosity that came back with the workers. Historically speaking, the Wahhabi reading of Islam had found little purchase on the subcontinent. Mainly because Wahhabi ideology is at odds with practices in Pakistani culture, which cherished its sufi saints. However, this migration allowed a vast population to unlearn their \"decadent\" and \"deviant\" practices from the \"pure practitioners\" in Saudi Arabia, Qatar or the Emirates. In the southern valleys and northern mountains dupattas were replaced with burkas and sufi shrines with madrasas. This cultural turn dovetailed with Zia ul-Haq's policies of Sunnification and the selling of jihad as a necessary commodity to the Pakistani people.Palestine, Chechnya and Kashmir became the de-facto topics at every Friday sermon from Doha and Riyadh to Dera Ghazi Khan and Rawalpindi. However, this Wahhabisation, which included a stricter, more literal interpretation of Qur'an, the demonisation of non-believers, antisemitic rhetoric, racism, the desire to \"fund\" jihads and so on, was never a straightforward process of important. Its progress was gradual and organic in a way that slowly de-legitimised established practices while distorting others: the spiritual guide was transformed into one who cast, or fought, black magic.It is hard to find a household, a conversation, in current day Pakistan that is free of such concerns. The practitioners combine the zeal of the Wahhabi imam with the bank-teller's command of charges due: $10 for the destruction of a marriage, $20 for an incantation for a ruined libido. All wrapped in literal reading of Qur'anic text.One cannot go further in examining this process of Wahhabisation without taking into account the impact of this migration of fathers on their families back home. What are the attitudes of this particular generation X towards the state? Can we really begin to look at the success or failure of the lawyer's movement without examining the Gulf Migration? Can we really talk about democracy without taking into account the roles of millions of Pakistanis as second or third rate citizens, with no rights in law as a person, in Gulf states? While many of us attempt to understand modern Pakistan in terms of political theory, or the appeal of fundamentalism in terms of theology neither of these approaches have proven fruitful. It is time that we broadened our scope of inquiry \u2013 to examine carefully labour and migration, civil and social structures, law and order, human rights and the effect they have on the many peoples of Pakistan.", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The Wahhabisation of Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-21T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Frontier Corps has been heavily infiltrated and influenced by Taliban militants, sometimes joining in attacks on coalition forces, according to classified US 'after-action' reports compiled following clashes on the border.According to those familiar with the material, regarded as deeply sensitive by the Pentagon in view of America's fragile relationship with Pakistan, there are 'box loads' of such reports at US bases along the length of the Pakistan-Afghan border. Details of the level of infiltration emerged yesterday on a day when five more US-led soldiers were killed in southern Afghanistan. Four of the soldiers died in a bomb and gunfire attack outside the southern city of Kandahar.Nato officials have reported a dramatic increase in cross-border incidents compared with the same period last year. The US documents describe the direct involvement of Frontier Corps troops in attacks on the Afghan National Army and coalition forces, and also detail attacks launched so close to Frontier Corps outposts that Pakistani co-operation with the Taliban is assumed. 'The reality,' said a source familiar with the situation on the ground, 'is that there are units so opposed to what the coalition is doing and so friendly to the other side that when the opportunity comes up they will fire on Afghan and coalition troops. And this is not random. It can be exceptionally well co-ordinated.'Another source - who has seen the reporting - described an attack last year where two Frontier Corps outposts appear to have been directly involved in firing on Afghan forces before a militant attack. Frontier Corps personnel have in the past been implicated in the past in murdering US and Afghan officers. In the most high-profile case, a Frontier Corps member 'assassinated' Major Larry J Bauguess during a border mediation meeting. In another incident, an Afghan officer was killed. Since then the problem appears to have worsened as the Taliban renew their insurgency on the Afghan side of the border.'The United States and Nato have substantial information on this problem,' said an American official. 'It's taking place at a variety of places along the border with the Frontier Corps giving direct and indirect assistance. I'm not saying it is everyone. There are some parts that have been quite helpful... but if you have seen the after-action reports of their involvement in attacks along the Afghan border you would appreciate the problem.'James Appathurai, a Nato spokesman, said: 'The real concern is that the extremists in Pakistan are getting safe havens to rest, recuperate and retool in Pakistan and come across the border. The concerns have been conveyed to the Pakistan authorities.'Seth Jones, author of the Rand report, which found evidence of collaboration, said the issue had been troubling the US even before the invasion of Afghanistan: 'If you go back a decade to the Clinton administration when the US targeted militant camps, members of the Pakistani intelligence services were killed along with militants.' The allegation that senior Pakistani officials continue to offer lukewarm assistance to the coalition while offering help to the Taliban is also reiterated in Descent into Chaos, a new book by the veteran Pakistani author Ahmed Rashid.Relations between the US and Pakistan were strained this month when 11 members of the Frontier Corps were killed when the US allegedly bombed their outpost near the border town of Gora Prai during a gun battle with militants on the border. Pakistani sources have questioned why the troops were hiding in a bunker in the midst of the battle and why they were 'unaware' of an hour-long firefight going on so close by.The issue of the Taliban's ability to cross and recross the border with Pakistan into that country's Federally Administered Tribal Areas is becoming one of the most contentious issues of the war, with many - including Afghan President Hamid Karzai - insisting that his country is involved in a 'regional conflict' and threatening to send troops across the border.The death of the five soldiers yesterday came as the Taliban stepped up their offensive. It happened a day after two other US-led soldiers died in separate incidents, including a suicide bombing.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan troops 'aid Taliban'"},{"date": "2008-06-20T16:06:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's ruling party has ratcheted up pressure on President Pervez Musharraf to quit by declaring it would soon announce a successor.Asif Ali Zardari, leader of the Pakistan People's party, told supporters the new president would continue the legacy of his assassinated wife, Benazir Bhutto.\"The day is not far off, my brothers and sisters, when this gathering will be held in the president's house and God willing, your president will be sworn in and he will raise the slogan of 'long live Bhutto',\" he said. But Zardari did not say how he would remove Musharraf, and a meeting on the issue with his uneasy coalition partner Nawaz Sharif today failed to produce any agreement. Musharraf's fate has become a matter of near daily speculation. In theory he will be in office until 2012, but since his party was trounced in elections in February he has battled against an unremitting chorus of resignation calls. Most analysts say his demise is a matter of weeks or months \u2013 the question is whether he will jump or be pushed.Musharraf insists he will neither resign nor allow himself to be turned into a \"useless vegetable\" - a reference to plans to strip him of his powers. He has dared the government to impeach him in parliament, knowing that it lacks the required majority. The president's confidence stems from the support of two key allies - the army and the US president, George Bush, whose administration wants to protect its battered Pakistan policy in the run up to the autumn presidential elections. The obsession with Musharraf's fate has dominated politics at a time of pressing needs \u2013 the economy is nosediving and the country faces an unprecedented threat from Taliban militants \u2013 and it has fractured the fragile coalition government. Initial attempts by Zardari to coax Musharraf from office cost him popularity points among an impatient public. Meanwhile Sharif, who denounced Musharraf at every opportunity, has seen his profile rise. As a result the PPP recently aligned its policy with Sharif's by calling for Musharraf to be tried for treason - a crime that carries the death penalty. But as today's meeting in Lahore proved, the issue of how to oust him remains problematic. Efforts at unity are complicated by a related controversy over whether to restore about 45 judges fired by Musharraf last November. Sharif has pulled his ministers from cabinet in protest at the PPP's failure to reinstate the judges \u2013 including Musharraf's nemesis, the former chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. After today's talks a Sharif aide said that \"one or two more rounds of talks\" would be held to narrow the differences between the two sides.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan plans Musharraf 'successor'"},{"date": "2008-05-12T17:11:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's fragile coalition government suffered a bruising blow today when Nawaz Sharif, leader of the second largest party, pulled his ministers from the six-week-old cabinet. The withdrawal followed the collapse of talks with the leader of the largest party, Asif Ali Zardari, over how to reinstate about 45 senior judges who were sacked by President Pervez Musharraf last November. After last-ditch talks in Dubai and London, Sharif returned to Islamabad to announce that his ministers would resign tomorrow. Nine of the 24 cabinet positions, including finance minister, are held by Sharif loyalists. The split destabilises Pakistani politics and raised fears for the transition to civilian rule after nine years under Musharraf. But for now it is more of a political trial separation than a divorce. Sharif said he was \"very pained\" to withdraw his ministers and would not seek to collapse the fledgling government. Instead of joining the opposition his party would support Zardari's on an \"issue by issue\" basis. \"We will not become part of any conspiracy to destabilise the democratic process,\" he said.Zardari's Pakistan People's party (PPP) continued the conciliatory tone, saying the issue was not whether the judges should be restored but \"how best to do it\".The awkward manoeuvres between the political allies are the public face of a complex power negotiation involving Pakistani diplomats, military generals and influential American officials. On the surface, Sharif and Zardari are arguing about a relatively technical issue. Both agree that that sacked judges, including the firebrand former chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, should be reinstated. But while Sharif advocates their immediate return, Zardari's PPP wants a more cautious approach including a judicial reform package to limit the chief justice's powers. In reality, though, the controversy overlays a more sensitive debate about the fate of Musharraf, who suffered a humiliating defeat in last February's election. Musharraf has made it clear that he is not prepared to stomach the return of Chaudhry. And despite his electoral collapse he still enjoys the support of two powerful backers: the Pakistani military and the US government. President George Bush wants his old ally Musharraf to remain in power, and last weekend dispatched the assistant secretary of state Richard Boucher to meet with Zardari and Sharif in London \u2014 the latest of several meetings between US and Pakistani officials at critical junctures. Although in public the US favours a transition to civilian-led democracy, its first objective is to ensure cooperation in the hunt for al-Qaida and Taliban militants in Pakistan who may be plotting attacks on Afghanistan or the west. That cooperation is underscored by the Pakistani military, which also appears to want to keep Musharraf in power. The importance of those military ties was underscored today by a visit from the acting commander of US central command, Lieutenant General Martin Dempsey, to military headquarters in Rawalpindi. Before leaving he said the meetings were \"vital and productive, and I look forward to more visits with all of them in future\".The US role has dismayed civil society activists inside Pakistan. \"There's a lot of pressure from abroad but it's all for Pervez Musharraf,\" said senior lawyer Athar Minallah. \"But what do they gain out of him right now? It's beyond my comprehension.\"The resignation of Sharif's ministers leaves the government precariously exposed at a time of deepening economic difficulties and growing public impatience. Zardari's popularity is slipping and the media has become increasingly critical. If his party is entirely deserted by Sharif he will have to rely on support from Musharraf loyalists \u2014 a politically devastating blow. Meanwhile the country is burdened by chronic electricity shortages and rising inflation, running at 17% in April. Business confidence is also sliding: last week the Karachi stock exchange dipped 5% and the rupee slid to an all-time low against the US dollar.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Ministers quit Pakistan cabinet"},{"date": "2008-06-27T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"Pakistan is in a leaderless drift four months after elections\", concluded Carlotta Gall in the New York Times on June 24. Just two days later, comes news that \"Baitullah Mehsud, the head of the Pakistani Taliban\" has killed 22 members of an intermediary peace committee between the State of Pakistan and Mehsud. I guess there are some leaders in Pakistan, after all. Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" in the northwestern rural regions and the stalled lawyer's movement in the major cities appear, at first glance, to reflect a deep chasm within Pakistani society. This division, if one should call it anything, is routinely understood as a manifestation of moderate v extreme Islam. But that raises the question of why it manifests itself along rural/urban, and class lines.Extremist ideology, as we have learned in the last 8 years, is just as prone to attract highly-educated members of the professional class as unemployed, frustrated youth. We have to delve deeper into Pakistan's recent past if we are to understand the crisis it faces at the present. Sub-continental history is dotted with intermittent mass movement of people \u2013 usually triggered by famine, war or worse \u2013 replete with attendant tales of distress and misery. In my reckoning, the early 1970s saw the another key migration that has so far received little analysis. It involved vast numbers of men from the rural and semi-urban parts of Pakistan moving to the emerging oil-based oligarchies in the Gulf.This economic migration created a backflow of liquid capital to these same villages and towns in Punjab, Sindh and the Northwest Frontier Province. But it also provided a unique vehicle for the transferring of the various strains of Muslim experience into the rather stilted one, currently on everyone's lips \u2013 Wahhabism. Between 1975 and 1985, the number of Pakistanis in the Gulf states rose from 205,000 to 446,000, with over $2.5bn flowing back annually. At its height in the mid-1980s, nearly 10% of Pakistan's adult male workforce was employed in the Gulf states.These migrant workers \u2013 over 80% were unskilled or semi-skilled \u2013 usually lasted about 4-6 years in the Gulf states and were replaced by other family, clan, tribe or village members. What they sent home \u2013 goods and cash \u2013 were the dominant factor in bolstering the Pakistani economy throughout the 1970s and 1980s and one of the key factors in Pakistan's turn towards western Asia under Bhutto and Zia ul-Haq. The migration cooled down during the 1990s but since 2000 there has been an increase the flow of workers. Currently, Pakistani workers are heavily employed in Dubai, Kuwait and Iraq. This large-scale migration to the Middle East had significant effects on local economies and production cycles but perhaps more importantly, it has had a sociocultural impact on Pakistan. Just as significant was the religiosity that came back with the workers. Historically speaking, the Wahhabi reading of Islam had found little purchase on the subcontinent. Mainly because Wahhabi ideology is at odds with practices in Pakistani culture, which cherished its sufi saints. However, this migration allowed a vast population to unlearn their \"decadent\" and \"deviant\" practices from the \"pure practitioners\" in Saudi Arabia, Qatar or the Emirates. In the southern valleys and northern mountains dupattas were replaced with burkas and sufi shrines with madrasas. This cultural turn dovetailed with Zia ul-Haq's policies of Sunnification and the selling of jihad as a necessary commodity to the Pakistani people.Palestine, Chechnya and Kashmir became the de-facto topics at every Friday sermon from Doha and Riyadh to Dera Ghazi Khan and Rawalpindi. However, this Wahhabisation, which included a stricter, more literal interpretation of Qur'an, the demonisation of non-believers, antisemitic rhetoric, racism, the desire to \"fund\" jihads and so on, was never a straightforward process of important. Its progress was gradual and organic in a way that slowly de-legitimised established practices while distorting others: the spiritual guide was transformed into one who cast, or fought, black magic.It is hard to find a household, a conversation, in current day Pakistan that is free of such concerns. The practitioners combine the zeal of the Wahhabi imam with the bank-teller's command of charges due: $10 for the destruction of a marriage, $20 for an incantation for a ruined libido. All wrapped in literal reading of Qur'anic text.One cannot go further in examining this process of Wahhabisation without taking into account the impact of this migration of fathers on their families back home. What are the attitudes of this particular generation X towards the state? Can we really begin to look at the success or failure of the lawyer's movement without examining the Gulf Migration? Can we really talk about democracy without taking into account the roles of millions of Pakistanis as second or third rate citizens, with no rights in law as a person, in Gulf states? While many of us attempt to understand modern Pakistan in terms of political theory, or the appeal of fundamentalism in terms of theology neither of these approaches have proven fruitful. It is time that we broadened our scope of inquiry \u2013 to examine carefully labour and migration, civil and social structures, law and order, human rights and the effect they have on the many peoples of Pakistan.", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The Wahhabisation of Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-21T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Frontier Corps has been heavily infiltrated and influenced by Taliban militants, sometimes joining in attacks on coalition forces, according to classified US 'after-action' reports compiled following clashes on the border.According to those familiar with the material, regarded as deeply sensitive by the Pentagon in view of America's fragile relationship with Pakistan, there are 'box loads' of such reports at US bases along the length of the Pakistan-Afghan border. Details of the level of infiltration emerged yesterday on a day when five more US-led soldiers were killed in southern Afghanistan. Four of the soldiers died in a bomb and gunfire attack outside the southern city of Kandahar.Nato officials have reported a dramatic increase in cross-border incidents compared with the same period last year. The US documents describe the direct involvement of Frontier Corps troops in attacks on the Afghan National Army and coalition forces, and also detail attacks launched so close to Frontier Corps outposts that Pakistani co-operation with the Taliban is assumed. 'The reality,' said a source familiar with the situation on the ground, 'is that there are units so opposed to what the coalition is doing and so friendly to the other side that when the opportunity comes up they will fire on Afghan and coalition troops. And this is not random. It can be exceptionally well co-ordinated.'Another source - who has seen the reporting - described an attack last year where two Frontier Corps outposts appear to have been directly involved in firing on Afghan forces before a militant attack. Frontier Corps personnel have in the past been implicated in the past in murdering US and Afghan officers. In the most high-profile case, a Frontier Corps member 'assassinated' Major Larry J Bauguess during a border mediation meeting. In another incident, an Afghan officer was killed. Since then the problem appears to have worsened as the Taliban renew their insurgency on the Afghan side of the border.'The United States and Nato have substantial information on this problem,' said an American official. 'It's taking place at a variety of places along the border with the Frontier Corps giving direct and indirect assistance. I'm not saying it is everyone. There are some parts that have been quite helpful... but if you have seen the after-action reports of their involvement in attacks along the Afghan border you would appreciate the problem.'James Appathurai, a Nato spokesman, said: 'The real concern is that the extremists in Pakistan are getting safe havens to rest, recuperate and retool in Pakistan and come across the border. The concerns have been conveyed to the Pakistan authorities.'Seth Jones, author of the Rand report, which found evidence of collaboration, said the issue had been troubling the US even before the invasion of Afghanistan: 'If you go back a decade to the Clinton administration when the US targeted militant camps, members of the Pakistani intelligence services were killed along with militants.' The allegation that senior Pakistani officials continue to offer lukewarm assistance to the coalition while offering help to the Taliban is also reiterated in Descent into Chaos, a new book by the veteran Pakistani author Ahmed Rashid.Relations between the US and Pakistan were strained this month when 11 members of the Frontier Corps were killed when the US allegedly bombed their outpost near the border town of Gora Prai during a gun battle with militants on the border. Pakistani sources have questioned why the troops were hiding in a bunker in the midst of the battle and why they were 'unaware' of an hour-long firefight going on so close by.The issue of the Taliban's ability to cross and recross the border with Pakistan into that country's Federally Administered Tribal Areas is becoming one of the most contentious issues of the war, with many - including Afghan President Hamid Karzai - insisting that his country is involved in a 'regional conflict' and threatening to send troops across the border.The death of the five soldiers yesterday came as the Taliban stepped up their offensive. It happened a day after two other US-led soldiers died in separate incidents, including a suicide bombing.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan troops 'aid Taliban'"},{"date": "2008-06-20T16:06:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's ruling party has ratcheted up pressure on President Pervez Musharraf to quit by declaring it would soon announce a successor.Asif Ali Zardari, leader of the Pakistan People's party, told supporters the new president would continue the legacy of his assassinated wife, Benazir Bhutto.\"The day is not far off, my brothers and sisters, when this gathering will be held in the president's house and God willing, your president will be sworn in and he will raise the slogan of 'long live Bhutto',\" he said. But Zardari did not say how he would remove Musharraf, and a meeting on the issue with his uneasy coalition partner Nawaz Sharif today failed to produce any agreement. Musharraf's fate has become a matter of near daily speculation. In theory he will be in office until 2012, but since his party was trounced in elections in February he has battled against an unremitting chorus of resignation calls. Most analysts say his demise is a matter of weeks or months \u2013 the question is whether he will jump or be pushed.Musharraf insists he will neither resign nor allow himself to be turned into a \"useless vegetable\" - a reference to plans to strip him of his powers. He has dared the government to impeach him in parliament, knowing that it lacks the required majority. The president's confidence stems from the support of two key allies - the army and the US president, George Bush, whose administration wants to protect its battered Pakistan policy in the run up to the autumn presidential elections. The obsession with Musharraf's fate has dominated politics at a time of pressing needs \u2013 the economy is nosediving and the country faces an unprecedented threat from Taliban militants \u2013 and it has fractured the fragile coalition government. Initial attempts by Zardari to coax Musharraf from office cost him popularity points among an impatient public. Meanwhile Sharif, who denounced Musharraf at every opportunity, has seen his profile rise. As a result the PPP recently aligned its policy with Sharif's by calling for Musharraf to be tried for treason - a crime that carries the death penalty. But as today's meeting in Lahore proved, the issue of how to oust him remains problematic. Efforts at unity are complicated by a related controversy over whether to restore about 45 judges fired by Musharraf last November. Sharif has pulled his ministers from cabinet in protest at the PPP's failure to reinstate the judges \u2013 including Musharraf's nemesis, the former chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. After today's talks a Sharif aide said that \"one or two more rounds of talks\" would be held to narrow the differences between the two sides.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan plans Musharraf 'successor'"},{"date": "2008-05-12T17:11:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's fragile coalition government suffered a bruising blow today when Nawaz Sharif, leader of the second largest party, pulled his ministers from the six-week-old cabinet. The withdrawal followed the collapse of talks with the leader of the largest party, Asif Ali Zardari, over how to reinstate about 45 senior judges who were sacked by President Pervez Musharraf last November. After last-ditch talks in Dubai and London, Sharif returned to Islamabad to announce that his ministers would resign tomorrow. Nine of the 24 cabinet positions, including finance minister, are held by Sharif loyalists. The split destabilises Pakistani politics and raised fears for the transition to civilian rule after nine years under Musharraf. But for now it is more of a political trial separation than a divorce. Sharif said he was \"very pained\" to withdraw his ministers and would not seek to collapse the fledgling government. Instead of joining the opposition his party would support Zardari's on an \"issue by issue\" basis. \"We will not become part of any conspiracy to destabilise the democratic process,\" he said.Zardari's Pakistan People's party (PPP) continued the conciliatory tone, saying the issue was not whether the judges should be restored but \"how best to do it\".The awkward manoeuvres between the political allies are the public face of a complex power negotiation involving Pakistani diplomats, military generals and influential American officials. On the surface, Sharif and Zardari are arguing about a relatively technical issue. Both agree that that sacked judges, including the firebrand former chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, should be reinstated. But while Sharif advocates their immediate return, Zardari's PPP wants a more cautious approach including a judicial reform package to limit the chief justice's powers. In reality, though, the controversy overlays a more sensitive debate about the fate of Musharraf, who suffered a humiliating defeat in last February's election. Musharraf has made it clear that he is not prepared to stomach the return of Chaudhry. And despite his electoral collapse he still enjoys the support of two powerful backers: the Pakistani military and the US government. President George Bush wants his old ally Musharraf to remain in power, and last weekend dispatched the assistant secretary of state Richard Boucher to meet with Zardari and Sharif in London \u2014 the latest of several meetings between US and Pakistani officials at critical junctures. Although in public the US favours a transition to civilian-led democracy, its first objective is to ensure cooperation in the hunt for al-Qaida and Taliban militants in Pakistan who may be plotting attacks on Afghanistan or the west. That cooperation is underscored by the Pakistani military, which also appears to want to keep Musharraf in power. The importance of those military ties was underscored today by a visit from the acting commander of US central command, Lieutenant General Martin Dempsey, to military headquarters in Rawalpindi. Before leaving he said the meetings were \"vital and productive, and I look forward to more visits with all of them in future\".The US role has dismayed civil society activists inside Pakistan. \"There's a lot of pressure from abroad but it's all for Pervez Musharraf,\" said senior lawyer Athar Minallah. \"But what do they gain out of him right now? It's beyond my comprehension.\"The resignation of Sharif's ministers leaves the government precariously exposed at a time of deepening economic difficulties and growing public impatience. Zardari's popularity is slipping and the media has become increasingly critical. If his party is entirely deserted by Sharif he will have to rely on support from Musharraf loyalists \u2014 a politically devastating blow. Meanwhile the country is burdened by chronic electricity shortages and rising inflation, running at 17% in April. Business confidence is also sliding: last week the Karachi stock exchange dipped 5% and the rupee slid to an all-time low against the US dollar.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Ministers quit Pakistan cabinet"},{"date": "2008-04-23T23:11:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "David Miliband has congratulated Pakistan on its return to democracy and advocates its re-entry into the Commonwealth (Pakistan's brief honeymoon, April 23). We also welcome the restoration of elections, but wish to urge the authorities to go further and join other civilised countries around the world in abolishing the death penalty. This week MPs, trade unions, students, Amnesty International and many community organisations are mounting a vigil outside the Pakistan high commission to halt the planned execution of Manjit Singh on May 1. Mr Singh is threatened with the death penalty for alleged terrorist activities. However, many believe he is innocent and that this is a case of mistaken identity. We are appealing to the Pakistani government to commute this death sentence and to abolish the death penalty altogether. John McDonnell MPLab, Hayes & Harlington Jeremy Corbyn MPLab, Islington North Virendra Sharma MPLab, Ealing Southall", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Plea to Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-27T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"Pakistan is in a leaderless drift four months after elections\", concluded Carlotta Gall in the New York Times on June 24. Just two days later, comes news that \"Baitullah Mehsud, the head of the Pakistani Taliban\" has killed 22 members of an intermediary peace committee between the State of Pakistan and Mehsud. I guess there are some leaders in Pakistan, after all. Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" in the northwestern rural regions and the stalled lawyer's movement in the major cities appear, at first glance, to reflect a deep chasm within Pakistani society. This division, if one should call it anything, is routinely understood as a manifestation of moderate v extreme Islam. But that raises the question of why it manifests itself along rural/urban, and class lines.Extremist ideology, as we have learned in the last 8 years, is just as prone to attract highly-educated members of the professional class as unemployed, frustrated youth. We have to delve deeper into Pakistan's recent past if we are to understand the crisis it faces at the present. Sub-continental history is dotted with intermittent mass movement of people \u2013 usually triggered by famine, war or worse \u2013 replete with attendant tales of distress and misery. In my reckoning, the early 1970s saw the another key migration that has so far received little analysis. It involved vast numbers of men from the rural and semi-urban parts of Pakistan moving to the emerging oil-based oligarchies in the Gulf.This economic migration created a backflow of liquid capital to these same villages and towns in Punjab, Sindh and the Northwest Frontier Province. But it also provided a unique vehicle for the transferring of the various strains of Muslim experience into the rather stilted one, currently on everyone's lips \u2013 Wahhabism. Between 1975 and 1985, the number of Pakistanis in the Gulf states rose from 205,000 to 446,000, with over $2.5bn flowing back annually. At its height in the mid-1980s, nearly 10% of Pakistan's adult male workforce was employed in the Gulf states.These migrant workers \u2013 over 80% were unskilled or semi-skilled \u2013 usually lasted about 4-6 years in the Gulf states and were replaced by other family, clan, tribe or village members. What they sent home \u2013 goods and cash \u2013 were the dominant factor in bolstering the Pakistani economy throughout the 1970s and 1980s and one of the key factors in Pakistan's turn towards western Asia under Bhutto and Zia ul-Haq. The migration cooled down during the 1990s but since 2000 there has been an increase the flow of workers. Currently, Pakistani workers are heavily employed in Dubai, Kuwait and Iraq. This large-scale migration to the Middle East had significant effects on local economies and production cycles but perhaps more importantly, it has had a sociocultural impact on Pakistan. Just as significant was the religiosity that came back with the workers. Historically speaking, the Wahhabi reading of Islam had found little purchase on the subcontinent. Mainly because Wahhabi ideology is at odds with practices in Pakistani culture, which cherished its sufi saints. However, this migration allowed a vast population to unlearn their \"decadent\" and \"deviant\" practices from the \"pure practitioners\" in Saudi Arabia, Qatar or the Emirates. In the southern valleys and northern mountains dupattas were replaced with burkas and sufi shrines with madrasas. This cultural turn dovetailed with Zia ul-Haq's policies of Sunnification and the selling of jihad as a necessary commodity to the Pakistani people.Palestine, Chechnya and Kashmir became the de-facto topics at every Friday sermon from Doha and Riyadh to Dera Ghazi Khan and Rawalpindi. However, this Wahhabisation, which included a stricter, more literal interpretation of Qur'an, the demonisation of non-believers, antisemitic rhetoric, racism, the desire to \"fund\" jihads and so on, was never a straightforward process of important. Its progress was gradual and organic in a way that slowly de-legitimised established practices while distorting others: the spiritual guide was transformed into one who cast, or fought, black magic.It is hard to find a household, a conversation, in current day Pakistan that is free of such concerns. The practitioners combine the zeal of the Wahhabi imam with the bank-teller's command of charges due: $10 for the destruction of a marriage, $20 for an incantation for a ruined libido. All wrapped in literal reading of Qur'anic text.One cannot go further in examining this process of Wahhabisation without taking into account the impact of this migration of fathers on their families back home. What are the attitudes of this particular generation X towards the state? Can we really begin to look at the success or failure of the lawyer's movement without examining the Gulf Migration? Can we really talk about democracy without taking into account the roles of millions of Pakistanis as second or third rate citizens, with no rights in law as a person, in Gulf states? While many of us attempt to understand modern Pakistan in terms of political theory, or the appeal of fundamentalism in terms of theology neither of these approaches have proven fruitful. It is time that we broadened our scope of inquiry \u2013 to examine carefully labour and migration, civil and social structures, law and order, human rights and the effect they have on the many peoples of Pakistan.", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The Wahhabisation of Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-21T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Frontier Corps has been heavily infiltrated and influenced by Taliban militants, sometimes joining in attacks on coalition forces, according to classified US 'after-action' reports compiled following clashes on the border.According to those familiar with the material, regarded as deeply sensitive by the Pentagon in view of America's fragile relationship with Pakistan, there are 'box loads' of such reports at US bases along the length of the Pakistan-Afghan border. Details of the level of infiltration emerged yesterday on a day when five more US-led soldiers were killed in southern Afghanistan. Four of the soldiers died in a bomb and gunfire attack outside the southern city of Kandahar.Nato officials have reported a dramatic increase in cross-border incidents compared with the same period last year. The US documents describe the direct involvement of Frontier Corps troops in attacks on the Afghan National Army and coalition forces, and also detail attacks launched so close to Frontier Corps outposts that Pakistani co-operation with the Taliban is assumed. 'The reality,' said a source familiar with the situation on the ground, 'is that there are units so opposed to what the coalition is doing and so friendly to the other side that when the opportunity comes up they will fire on Afghan and coalition troops. And this is not random. It can be exceptionally well co-ordinated.'Another source - who has seen the reporting - described an attack last year where two Frontier Corps outposts appear to have been directly involved in firing on Afghan forces before a militant attack. Frontier Corps personnel have in the past been implicated in the past in murdering US and Afghan officers. In the most high-profile case, a Frontier Corps member 'assassinated' Major Larry J Bauguess during a border mediation meeting. In another incident, an Afghan officer was killed. Since then the problem appears to have worsened as the Taliban renew their insurgency on the Afghan side of the border.'The United States and Nato have substantial information on this problem,' said an American official. 'It's taking place at a variety of places along the border with the Frontier Corps giving direct and indirect assistance. I'm not saying it is everyone. There are some parts that have been quite helpful... but if you have seen the after-action reports of their involvement in attacks along the Afghan border you would appreciate the problem.'James Appathurai, a Nato spokesman, said: 'The real concern is that the extremists in Pakistan are getting safe havens to rest, recuperate and retool in Pakistan and come across the border. The concerns have been conveyed to the Pakistan authorities.'Seth Jones, author of the Rand report, which found evidence of collaboration, said the issue had been troubling the US even before the invasion of Afghanistan: 'If you go back a decade to the Clinton administration when the US targeted militant camps, members of the Pakistani intelligence services were killed along with militants.' The allegation that senior Pakistani officials continue to offer lukewarm assistance to the coalition while offering help to the Taliban is also reiterated in Descent into Chaos, a new book by the veteran Pakistani author Ahmed Rashid.Relations between the US and Pakistan were strained this month when 11 members of the Frontier Corps were killed when the US allegedly bombed their outpost near the border town of Gora Prai during a gun battle with militants on the border. Pakistani sources have questioned why the troops were hiding in a bunker in the midst of the battle and why they were 'unaware' of an hour-long firefight going on so close by.The issue of the Taliban's ability to cross and recross the border with Pakistan into that country's Federally Administered Tribal Areas is becoming one of the most contentious issues of the war, with many - including Afghan President Hamid Karzai - insisting that his country is involved in a 'regional conflict' and threatening to send troops across the border.The death of the five soldiers yesterday came as the Taliban stepped up their offensive. It happened a day after two other US-led soldiers died in separate incidents, including a suicide bombing.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan troops 'aid Taliban'"},{"date": "2008-06-20T16:06:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's ruling party has ratcheted up pressure on President Pervez Musharraf to quit by declaring it would soon announce a successor.Asif Ali Zardari, leader of the Pakistan People's party, told supporters the new president would continue the legacy of his assassinated wife, Benazir Bhutto.\"The day is not far off, my brothers and sisters, when this gathering will be held in the president's house and God willing, your president will be sworn in and he will raise the slogan of 'long live Bhutto',\" he said. But Zardari did not say how he would remove Musharraf, and a meeting on the issue with his uneasy coalition partner Nawaz Sharif today failed to produce any agreement. Musharraf's fate has become a matter of near daily speculation. In theory he will be in office until 2012, but since his party was trounced in elections in February he has battled against an unremitting chorus of resignation calls. Most analysts say his demise is a matter of weeks or months \u2013 the question is whether he will jump or be pushed.Musharraf insists he will neither resign nor allow himself to be turned into a \"useless vegetable\" - a reference to plans to strip him of his powers. He has dared the government to impeach him in parliament, knowing that it lacks the required majority. The president's confidence stems from the support of two key allies - the army and the US president, George Bush, whose administration wants to protect its battered Pakistan policy in the run up to the autumn presidential elections. The obsession with Musharraf's fate has dominated politics at a time of pressing needs \u2013 the economy is nosediving and the country faces an unprecedented threat from Taliban militants \u2013 and it has fractured the fragile coalition government. Initial attempts by Zardari to coax Musharraf from office cost him popularity points among an impatient public. Meanwhile Sharif, who denounced Musharraf at every opportunity, has seen his profile rise. As a result the PPP recently aligned its policy with Sharif's by calling for Musharraf to be tried for treason - a crime that carries the death penalty. But as today's meeting in Lahore proved, the issue of how to oust him remains problematic. Efforts at unity are complicated by a related controversy over whether to restore about 45 judges fired by Musharraf last November. Sharif has pulled his ministers from cabinet in protest at the PPP's failure to reinstate the judges \u2013 including Musharraf's nemesis, the former chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. After today's talks a Sharif aide said that \"one or two more rounds of talks\" would be held to narrow the differences between the two sides.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan plans Musharraf 'successor'"},{"date": "2008-05-12T17:11:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's fragile coalition government suffered a bruising blow today when Nawaz Sharif, leader of the second largest party, pulled his ministers from the six-week-old cabinet. The withdrawal followed the collapse of talks with the leader of the largest party, Asif Ali Zardari, over how to reinstate about 45 senior judges who were sacked by President Pervez Musharraf last November. After last-ditch talks in Dubai and London, Sharif returned to Islamabad to announce that his ministers would resign tomorrow. Nine of the 24 cabinet positions, including finance minister, are held by Sharif loyalists. The split destabilises Pakistani politics and raised fears for the transition to civilian rule after nine years under Musharraf. But for now it is more of a political trial separation than a divorce. Sharif said he was \"very pained\" to withdraw his ministers and would not seek to collapse the fledgling government. Instead of joining the opposition his party would support Zardari's on an \"issue by issue\" basis. \"We will not become part of any conspiracy to destabilise the democratic process,\" he said.Zardari's Pakistan People's party (PPP) continued the conciliatory tone, saying the issue was not whether the judges should be restored but \"how best to do it\".The awkward manoeuvres between the political allies are the public face of a complex power negotiation involving Pakistani diplomats, military generals and influential American officials. On the surface, Sharif and Zardari are arguing about a relatively technical issue. Both agree that that sacked judges, including the firebrand former chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, should be reinstated. But while Sharif advocates their immediate return, Zardari's PPP wants a more cautious approach including a judicial reform package to limit the chief justice's powers. In reality, though, the controversy overlays a more sensitive debate about the fate of Musharraf, who suffered a humiliating defeat in last February's election. Musharraf has made it clear that he is not prepared to stomach the return of Chaudhry. And despite his electoral collapse he still enjoys the support of two powerful backers: the Pakistani military and the US government. President George Bush wants his old ally Musharraf to remain in power, and last weekend dispatched the assistant secretary of state Richard Boucher to meet with Zardari and Sharif in London \u2014 the latest of several meetings between US and Pakistani officials at critical junctures. Although in public the US favours a transition to civilian-led democracy, its first objective is to ensure cooperation in the hunt for al-Qaida and Taliban militants in Pakistan who may be plotting attacks on Afghanistan or the west. That cooperation is underscored by the Pakistani military, which also appears to want to keep Musharraf in power. The importance of those military ties was underscored today by a visit from the acting commander of US central command, Lieutenant General Martin Dempsey, to military headquarters in Rawalpindi. Before leaving he said the meetings were \"vital and productive, and I look forward to more visits with all of them in future\".The US role has dismayed civil society activists inside Pakistan. \"There's a lot of pressure from abroad but it's all for Pervez Musharraf,\" said senior lawyer Athar Minallah. \"But what do they gain out of him right now? It's beyond my comprehension.\"The resignation of Sharif's ministers leaves the government precariously exposed at a time of deepening economic difficulties and growing public impatience. Zardari's popularity is slipping and the media has become increasingly critical. If his party is entirely deserted by Sharif he will have to rely on support from Musharraf loyalists \u2014 a politically devastating blow. Meanwhile the country is burdened by chronic electricity shortages and rising inflation, running at 17% in April. Business confidence is also sliding: last week the Karachi stock exchange dipped 5% and the rupee slid to an all-time low against the US dollar.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Ministers quit Pakistan cabinet"},{"date": "2008-04-23T23:11:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "David Miliband has congratulated Pakistan on its return to democracy and advocates its re-entry into the Commonwealth (Pakistan's brief honeymoon, April 23). We also welcome the restoration of elections, but wish to urge the authorities to go further and join other civilised countries around the world in abolishing the death penalty. This week MPs, trade unions, students, Amnesty International and many community organisations are mounting a vigil outside the Pakistan high commission to halt the planned execution of Manjit Singh on May 1. Mr Singh is threatened with the death penalty for alleged terrorist activities. However, many believe he is innocent and that this is a case of mistaken identity. We are appealing to the Pakistani government to commute this death sentence and to abolish the death penalty altogether. John McDonnell MPLab, Hayes & Harlington Jeremy Corbyn MPLab, Islington North Virendra Sharma MPLab, Ealing Southall", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Plea to Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-04-15T05:56:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The International Federation of Journalists has called for an investigation into the murder of Pakistani journalist Khadim Hussain Sheikh. The bureau chief of Urdu daily newspaper Khabrein and a stinger for Sindh TV, in Baluchistan was travelling to his office on a motorbike with his brother when gunmen intercepted them. Both men were shot at close range. Khadim died instantly and his brother was seriously injured. He is the third journalist killed in Pakistan this year. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan journalist murdered"},{"date": "2008-06-27T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"Pakistan is in a leaderless drift four months after elections\", concluded Carlotta Gall in the New York Times on June 24. Just two days later, comes news that \"Baitullah Mehsud, the head of the Pakistani Taliban\" has killed 22 members of an intermediary peace committee between the State of Pakistan and Mehsud. I guess there are some leaders in Pakistan, after all. Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" in the northwestern rural regions and the stalled lawyer's movement in the major cities appear, at first glance, to reflect a deep chasm within Pakistani society. This division, if one should call it anything, is routinely understood as a manifestation of moderate v extreme Islam. But that raises the question of why it manifests itself along rural/urban, and class lines.Extremist ideology, as we have learned in the last 8 years, is just as prone to attract highly-educated members of the professional class as unemployed, frustrated youth. We have to delve deeper into Pakistan's recent past if we are to understand the crisis it faces at the present. Sub-continental history is dotted with intermittent mass movement of people \u2013 usually triggered by famine, war or worse \u2013 replete with attendant tales of distress and misery. In my reckoning, the early 1970s saw the another key migration that has so far received little analysis. It involved vast numbers of men from the rural and semi-urban parts of Pakistan moving to the emerging oil-based oligarchies in the Gulf.This economic migration created a backflow of liquid capital to these same villages and towns in Punjab, Sindh and the Northwest Frontier Province. But it also provided a unique vehicle for the transferring of the various strains of Muslim experience into the rather stilted one, currently on everyone's lips \u2013 Wahhabism. Between 1975 and 1985, the number of Pakistanis in the Gulf states rose from 205,000 to 446,000, with over $2.5bn flowing back annually. At its height in the mid-1980s, nearly 10% of Pakistan's adult male workforce was employed in the Gulf states.These migrant workers \u2013 over 80% were unskilled or semi-skilled \u2013 usually lasted about 4-6 years in the Gulf states and were replaced by other family, clan, tribe or village members. What they sent home \u2013 goods and cash \u2013 were the dominant factor in bolstering the Pakistani economy throughout the 1970s and 1980s and one of the key factors in Pakistan's turn towards western Asia under Bhutto and Zia ul-Haq. The migration cooled down during the 1990s but since 2000 there has been an increase the flow of workers. Currently, Pakistani workers are heavily employed in Dubai, Kuwait and Iraq. This large-scale migration to the Middle East had significant effects on local economies and production cycles but perhaps more importantly, it has had a sociocultural impact on Pakistan. Just as significant was the religiosity that came back with the workers. Historically speaking, the Wahhabi reading of Islam had found little purchase on the subcontinent. Mainly because Wahhabi ideology is at odds with practices in Pakistani culture, which cherished its sufi saints. However, this migration allowed a vast population to unlearn their \"decadent\" and \"deviant\" practices from the \"pure practitioners\" in Saudi Arabia, Qatar or the Emirates. In the southern valleys and northern mountains dupattas were replaced with burkas and sufi shrines with madrasas. This cultural turn dovetailed with Zia ul-Haq's policies of Sunnification and the selling of jihad as a necessary commodity to the Pakistani people.Palestine, Chechnya and Kashmir became the de-facto topics at every Friday sermon from Doha and Riyadh to Dera Ghazi Khan and Rawalpindi. However, this Wahhabisation, which included a stricter, more literal interpretation of Qur'an, the demonisation of non-believers, antisemitic rhetoric, racism, the desire to \"fund\" jihads and so on, was never a straightforward process of important. Its progress was gradual and organic in a way that slowly de-legitimised established practices while distorting others: the spiritual guide was transformed into one who cast, or fought, black magic.It is hard to find a household, a conversation, in current day Pakistan that is free of such concerns. The practitioners combine the zeal of the Wahhabi imam with the bank-teller's command of charges due: $10 for the destruction of a marriage, $20 for an incantation for a ruined libido. All wrapped in literal reading of Qur'anic text.One cannot go further in examining this process of Wahhabisation without taking into account the impact of this migration of fathers on their families back home. What are the attitudes of this particular generation X towards the state? Can we really begin to look at the success or failure of the lawyer's movement without examining the Gulf Migration? Can we really talk about democracy without taking into account the roles of millions of Pakistanis as second or third rate citizens, with no rights in law as a person, in Gulf states? While many of us attempt to understand modern Pakistan in terms of political theory, or the appeal of fundamentalism in terms of theology neither of these approaches have proven fruitful. It is time that we broadened our scope of inquiry \u2013 to examine carefully labour and migration, civil and social structures, law and order, human rights and the effect they have on the many peoples of Pakistan.", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The Wahhabisation of Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-21T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Frontier Corps has been heavily infiltrated and influenced by Taliban militants, sometimes joining in attacks on coalition forces, according to classified US 'after-action' reports compiled following clashes on the border.According to those familiar with the material, regarded as deeply sensitive by the Pentagon in view of America's fragile relationship with Pakistan, there are 'box loads' of such reports at US bases along the length of the Pakistan-Afghan border. Details of the level of infiltration emerged yesterday on a day when five more US-led soldiers were killed in southern Afghanistan. Four of the soldiers died in a bomb and gunfire attack outside the southern city of Kandahar.Nato officials have reported a dramatic increase in cross-border incidents compared with the same period last year. The US documents describe the direct involvement of Frontier Corps troops in attacks on the Afghan National Army and coalition forces, and also detail attacks launched so close to Frontier Corps outposts that Pakistani co-operation with the Taliban is assumed. 'The reality,' said a source familiar with the situation on the ground, 'is that there are units so opposed to what the coalition is doing and so friendly to the other side that when the opportunity comes up they will fire on Afghan and coalition troops. And this is not random. It can be exceptionally well co-ordinated.'Another source - who has seen the reporting - described an attack last year where two Frontier Corps outposts appear to have been directly involved in firing on Afghan forces before a militant attack. Frontier Corps personnel have in the past been implicated in the past in murdering US and Afghan officers. In the most high-profile case, a Frontier Corps member 'assassinated' Major Larry J Bauguess during a border mediation meeting. In another incident, an Afghan officer was killed. Since then the problem appears to have worsened as the Taliban renew their insurgency on the Afghan side of the border.'The United States and Nato have substantial information on this problem,' said an American official. 'It's taking place at a variety of places along the border with the Frontier Corps giving direct and indirect assistance. I'm not saying it is everyone. There are some parts that have been quite helpful... but if you have seen the after-action reports of their involvement in attacks along the Afghan border you would appreciate the problem.'James Appathurai, a Nato spokesman, said: 'The real concern is that the extremists in Pakistan are getting safe havens to rest, recuperate and retool in Pakistan and come across the border. The concerns have been conveyed to the Pakistan authorities.'Seth Jones, author of the Rand report, which found evidence of collaboration, said the issue had been troubling the US even before the invasion of Afghanistan: 'If you go back a decade to the Clinton administration when the US targeted militant camps, members of the Pakistani intelligence services were killed along with militants.' The allegation that senior Pakistani officials continue to offer lukewarm assistance to the coalition while offering help to the Taliban is also reiterated in Descent into Chaos, a new book by the veteran Pakistani author Ahmed Rashid.Relations between the US and Pakistan were strained this month when 11 members of the Frontier Corps were killed when the US allegedly bombed their outpost near the border town of Gora Prai during a gun battle with militants on the border. Pakistani sources have questioned why the troops were hiding in a bunker in the midst of the battle and why they were 'unaware' of an hour-long firefight going on so close by.The issue of the Taliban's ability to cross and recross the border with Pakistan into that country's Federally Administered Tribal Areas is becoming one of the most contentious issues of the war, with many - including Afghan President Hamid Karzai - insisting that his country is involved in a 'regional conflict' and threatening to send troops across the border.The death of the five soldiers yesterday came as the Taliban stepped up their offensive. It happened a day after two other US-led soldiers died in separate incidents, including a suicide bombing.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan troops 'aid Taliban'"},{"date": "2008-06-20T16:06:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's ruling party has ratcheted up pressure on President Pervez Musharraf to quit by declaring it would soon announce a successor.Asif Ali Zardari, leader of the Pakistan People's party, told supporters the new president would continue the legacy of his assassinated wife, Benazir Bhutto.\"The day is not far off, my brothers and sisters, when this gathering will be held in the president's house and God willing, your president will be sworn in and he will raise the slogan of 'long live Bhutto',\" he said. But Zardari did not say how he would remove Musharraf, and a meeting on the issue with his uneasy coalition partner Nawaz Sharif today failed to produce any agreement. Musharraf's fate has become a matter of near daily speculation. In theory he will be in office until 2012, but since his party was trounced in elections in February he has battled against an unremitting chorus of resignation calls. Most analysts say his demise is a matter of weeks or months \u2013 the question is whether he will jump or be pushed.Musharraf insists he will neither resign nor allow himself to be turned into a \"useless vegetable\" - a reference to plans to strip him of his powers. He has dared the government to impeach him in parliament, knowing that it lacks the required majority. The president's confidence stems from the support of two key allies - the army and the US president, George Bush, whose administration wants to protect its battered Pakistan policy in the run up to the autumn presidential elections. The obsession with Musharraf's fate has dominated politics at a time of pressing needs \u2013 the economy is nosediving and the country faces an unprecedented threat from Taliban militants \u2013 and it has fractured the fragile coalition government. Initial attempts by Zardari to coax Musharraf from office cost him popularity points among an impatient public. Meanwhile Sharif, who denounced Musharraf at every opportunity, has seen his profile rise. As a result the PPP recently aligned its policy with Sharif's by calling for Musharraf to be tried for treason - a crime that carries the death penalty. But as today's meeting in Lahore proved, the issue of how to oust him remains problematic. Efforts at unity are complicated by a related controversy over whether to restore about 45 judges fired by Musharraf last November. Sharif has pulled his ministers from cabinet in protest at the PPP's failure to reinstate the judges \u2013 including Musharraf's nemesis, the former chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. After today's talks a Sharif aide said that \"one or two more rounds of talks\" would be held to narrow the differences between the two sides.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan plans Musharraf 'successor'"},{"date": "2008-05-12T17:11:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's fragile coalition government suffered a bruising blow today when Nawaz Sharif, leader of the second largest party, pulled his ministers from the six-week-old cabinet. The withdrawal followed the collapse of talks with the leader of the largest party, Asif Ali Zardari, over how to reinstate about 45 senior judges who were sacked by President Pervez Musharraf last November. After last-ditch talks in Dubai and London, Sharif returned to Islamabad to announce that his ministers would resign tomorrow. Nine of the 24 cabinet positions, including finance minister, are held by Sharif loyalists. The split destabilises Pakistani politics and raised fears for the transition to civilian rule after nine years under Musharraf. But for now it is more of a political trial separation than a divorce. Sharif said he was \"very pained\" to withdraw his ministers and would not seek to collapse the fledgling government. Instead of joining the opposition his party would support Zardari's on an \"issue by issue\" basis. \"We will not become part of any conspiracy to destabilise the democratic process,\" he said.Zardari's Pakistan People's party (PPP) continued the conciliatory tone, saying the issue was not whether the judges should be restored but \"how best to do it\".The awkward manoeuvres between the political allies are the public face of a complex power negotiation involving Pakistani diplomats, military generals and influential American officials. On the surface, Sharif and Zardari are arguing about a relatively technical issue. Both agree that that sacked judges, including the firebrand former chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, should be reinstated. But while Sharif advocates their immediate return, Zardari's PPP wants a more cautious approach including a judicial reform package to limit the chief justice's powers. In reality, though, the controversy overlays a more sensitive debate about the fate of Musharraf, who suffered a humiliating defeat in last February's election. Musharraf has made it clear that he is not prepared to stomach the return of Chaudhry. And despite his electoral collapse he still enjoys the support of two powerful backers: the Pakistani military and the US government. President George Bush wants his old ally Musharraf to remain in power, and last weekend dispatched the assistant secretary of state Richard Boucher to meet with Zardari and Sharif in London \u2014 the latest of several meetings between US and Pakistani officials at critical junctures. Although in public the US favours a transition to civilian-led democracy, its first objective is to ensure cooperation in the hunt for al-Qaida and Taliban militants in Pakistan who may be plotting attacks on Afghanistan or the west. That cooperation is underscored by the Pakistani military, which also appears to want to keep Musharraf in power. The importance of those military ties was underscored today by a visit from the acting commander of US central command, Lieutenant General Martin Dempsey, to military headquarters in Rawalpindi. Before leaving he said the meetings were \"vital and productive, and I look forward to more visits with all of them in future\".The US role has dismayed civil society activists inside Pakistan. \"There's a lot of pressure from abroad but it's all for Pervez Musharraf,\" said senior lawyer Athar Minallah. \"But what do they gain out of him right now? It's beyond my comprehension.\"The resignation of Sharif's ministers leaves the government precariously exposed at a time of deepening economic difficulties and growing public impatience. Zardari's popularity is slipping and the media has become increasingly critical. If his party is entirely deserted by Sharif he will have to rely on support from Musharraf loyalists \u2014 a politically devastating blow. Meanwhile the country is burdened by chronic electricity shortages and rising inflation, running at 17% in April. Business confidence is also sliding: last week the Karachi stock exchange dipped 5% and the rupee slid to an all-time low against the US dollar.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Ministers quit Pakistan cabinet"},{"date": "2008-04-23T23:11:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "David Miliband has congratulated Pakistan on its return to democracy and advocates its re-entry into the Commonwealth (Pakistan's brief honeymoon, April 23). We also welcome the restoration of elections, but wish to urge the authorities to go further and join other civilised countries around the world in abolishing the death penalty. This week MPs, trade unions, students, Amnesty International and many community organisations are mounting a vigil outside the Pakistan high commission to halt the planned execution of Manjit Singh on May 1. Mr Singh is threatened with the death penalty for alleged terrorist activities. However, many believe he is innocent and that this is a case of mistaken identity. We are appealing to the Pakistani government to commute this death sentence and to abolish the death penalty altogether. John McDonnell MPLab, Hayes & Harlington Jeremy Corbyn MPLab, Islington North Virendra Sharma MPLab, Ealing Southall", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Plea to Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-04-15T05:56:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The International Federation of Journalists has called for an investigation into the murder of Pakistani journalist Khadim Hussain Sheikh. The bureau chief of Urdu daily newspaper Khabrein and a stinger for Sindh TV, in Baluchistan was travelling to his office on a motorbike with his brother when gunmen intercepted them. Both men were shot at close range. Khadim died instantly and his brother was seriously injured. He is the third journalist killed in Pakistan this year. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan journalist murdered"},{"date": "2008-05-29T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The next president of the United States will face real and serious national security challenges on a multitude of fronts, with al-Qaida at the top of the list. Nearly seven years after 9/11, its media outreach programme broadcasts messages on the airwaves and the internet, attempting to radicalise unaffiliated sympathisers into violent action. Regional groups in Iraq, Algeria and elsewhere place themselves under its brand in an effort to magnify their importance and gain funding as terrorist franchises. The threat from al-Qaida is diffuse, but US and foreign intelligence agencies have reached a strikingly unanimous conclusion that the core organisational leadership has re-formed itself.Its location? Pakistan.Al-Qaida has, in the words of the US director for national intelligence's February 2008 Annual Threat Assessment, \"retained or regenerated key elements of its capability, including top leadership, operational mid-level lieutenants and de facto safe haven in Pakistan's border area with Afghanistan\". Top officials at the CIA, state department and Joint Chiefs of Staff have all echoed this assessment in recent months. And under questioning from the Senate armed services committee at his confirmation hearing for the position of Centcom commander, which carries responsibility for Afghanistan and Pakistan as well as Iraq, General David Petraeus finally added his voice to this warning chorus as well.Unfortunately, the current political debate has yet to fully catch up to this reality. In part this derives from the administration's own history of neglect of this strategically central region. President Bush decided to leave the mission unaccomplished in Afghanistan, throw US support behind Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf despite his anti-democratic tendencies, and take our country into an unnecessary war of choice in Iraq, which continues to dominate policymakers' attention. Conservatives in Congress have never seriously questioned any of this. From 2005 to 2006, the 109th Congress managed to hold just one single hearing on Pakistan in all the armed services, foreign affairs, intelligence and oversight committees of both the House and Senate combined. Under Democratic leadership, the 110th Congress has to date held at least 16 congressional hearings on Pakistan alone.This is an important start, but arguments over negotiations with the regime of Iran and plans to withdraw or maintain US forces in Iraq have so far overshadowed the leading presidential candidates' plans for dealing with the situation in Pakistan, which have still not been articulated in full.Conservatives' lack of any new plans to close the safe havens that exist there now suggests that they will remain wedded to the status quo policies that have allowed al-Qaida to rebuild itself since 2002. The administration and its allies have previously used fears of Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" to justify their over-reliance on the Pakistani army, which is happy to encourage the notion in order to assure a continued influx of American military aid.In fact, militancy in Pakistan is largely concentrated along the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan. Popular opposition to the use of suicide bombings and other terror tactics has increased as Pakistanis have suffered attacks at the hands of domestic terrorists targeting the institutions of the state. Islamist political parties lost in large numbers in the most recent parliamentary elections, and both US and Pakistani military officials have dismissed any possibility that the country's nuclear arsenal could fall into the hands of terrorists. Prior to those elections, conservatives credited President Musharraf with saving Pakistan from itself, underplaying the role of the Pakistani military in suppressing democratic forces, and its historic support for militant groups operating under an Islamist banner as a means of checking domestic opposition and destabilising its neighbours.Conservatives are always ready to display their toughness and experience on national security, but a look beneath the surface finds they actually have no clear plan to make us more secure from the al-Qaida movement that killed 3,000 Americans on 9/11. Progressive candidates for office should not shy away from a national security debate they can win by offering serious strategies for the real threats facing America centred in Pakistan and Afghanistan. So long as conservatives cling to President Bush's policies of inertia in Iraq and passivity in Pakistan, their posturing on national security will continue to ring hollow.", "tags": ["US news", "Al-Qaida", "Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Time to focus on Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-27T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"Pakistan is in a leaderless drift four months after elections\", concluded Carlotta Gall in the New York Times on June 24. Just two days later, comes news that \"Baitullah Mehsud, the head of the Pakistani Taliban\" has killed 22 members of an intermediary peace committee between the State of Pakistan and Mehsud. I guess there are some leaders in Pakistan, after all. Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" in the northwestern rural regions and the stalled lawyer's movement in the major cities appear, at first glance, to reflect a deep chasm within Pakistani society. This division, if one should call it anything, is routinely understood as a manifestation of moderate v extreme Islam. But that raises the question of why it manifests itself along rural/urban, and class lines.Extremist ideology, as we have learned in the last 8 years, is just as prone to attract highly-educated members of the professional class as unemployed, frustrated youth. We have to delve deeper into Pakistan's recent past if we are to understand the crisis it faces at the present. Sub-continental history is dotted with intermittent mass movement of people \u2013 usually triggered by famine, war or worse \u2013 replete with attendant tales of distress and misery. In my reckoning, the early 1970s saw the another key migration that has so far received little analysis. It involved vast numbers of men from the rural and semi-urban parts of Pakistan moving to the emerging oil-based oligarchies in the Gulf.This economic migration created a backflow of liquid capital to these same villages and towns in Punjab, Sindh and the Northwest Frontier Province. But it also provided a unique vehicle for the transferring of the various strains of Muslim experience into the rather stilted one, currently on everyone's lips \u2013 Wahhabism. Between 1975 and 1985, the number of Pakistanis in the Gulf states rose from 205,000 to 446,000, with over $2.5bn flowing back annually. At its height in the mid-1980s, nearly 10% of Pakistan's adult male workforce was employed in the Gulf states.These migrant workers \u2013 over 80% were unskilled or semi-skilled \u2013 usually lasted about 4-6 years in the Gulf states and were replaced by other family, clan, tribe or village members. What they sent home \u2013 goods and cash \u2013 were the dominant factor in bolstering the Pakistani economy throughout the 1970s and 1980s and one of the key factors in Pakistan's turn towards western Asia under Bhutto and Zia ul-Haq. The migration cooled down during the 1990s but since 2000 there has been an increase the flow of workers. Currently, Pakistani workers are heavily employed in Dubai, Kuwait and Iraq. This large-scale migration to the Middle East had significant effects on local economies and production cycles but perhaps more importantly, it has had a sociocultural impact on Pakistan. Just as significant was the religiosity that came back with the workers. Historically speaking, the Wahhabi reading of Islam had found little purchase on the subcontinent. Mainly because Wahhabi ideology is at odds with practices in Pakistani culture, which cherished its sufi saints. However, this migration allowed a vast population to unlearn their \"decadent\" and \"deviant\" practices from the \"pure practitioners\" in Saudi Arabia, Qatar or the Emirates. In the southern valleys and northern mountains dupattas were replaced with burkas and sufi shrines with madrasas. This cultural turn dovetailed with Zia ul-Haq's policies of Sunnification and the selling of jihad as a necessary commodity to the Pakistani people.Palestine, Chechnya and Kashmir became the de-facto topics at every Friday sermon from Doha and Riyadh to Dera Ghazi Khan and Rawalpindi. However, this Wahhabisation, which included a stricter, more literal interpretation of Qur'an, the demonisation of non-believers, antisemitic rhetoric, racism, the desire to \"fund\" jihads and so on, was never a straightforward process of important. Its progress was gradual and organic in a way that slowly de-legitimised established practices while distorting others: the spiritual guide was transformed into one who cast, or fought, black magic.It is hard to find a household, a conversation, in current day Pakistan that is free of such concerns. The practitioners combine the zeal of the Wahhabi imam with the bank-teller's command of charges due: $10 for the destruction of a marriage, $20 for an incantation for a ruined libido. All wrapped in literal reading of Qur'anic text.One cannot go further in examining this process of Wahhabisation without taking into account the impact of this migration of fathers on their families back home. What are the attitudes of this particular generation X towards the state? Can we really begin to look at the success or failure of the lawyer's movement without examining the Gulf Migration? Can we really talk about democracy without taking into account the roles of millions of Pakistanis as second or third rate citizens, with no rights in law as a person, in Gulf states? While many of us attempt to understand modern Pakistan in terms of political theory, or the appeal of fundamentalism in terms of theology neither of these approaches have proven fruitful. It is time that we broadened our scope of inquiry \u2013 to examine carefully labour and migration, civil and social structures, law and order, human rights and the effect they have on the many peoples of Pakistan.", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The Wahhabisation of Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-21T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Frontier Corps has been heavily infiltrated and influenced by Taliban militants, sometimes joining in attacks on coalition forces, according to classified US 'after-action' reports compiled following clashes on the border.According to those familiar with the material, regarded as deeply sensitive by the Pentagon in view of America's fragile relationship with Pakistan, there are 'box loads' of such reports at US bases along the length of the Pakistan-Afghan border. Details of the level of infiltration emerged yesterday on a day when five more US-led soldiers were killed in southern Afghanistan. Four of the soldiers died in a bomb and gunfire attack outside the southern city of Kandahar.Nato officials have reported a dramatic increase in cross-border incidents compared with the same period last year. The US documents describe the direct involvement of Frontier Corps troops in attacks on the Afghan National Army and coalition forces, and also detail attacks launched so close to Frontier Corps outposts that Pakistani co-operation with the Taliban is assumed. 'The reality,' said a source familiar with the situation on the ground, 'is that there are units so opposed to what the coalition is doing and so friendly to the other side that when the opportunity comes up they will fire on Afghan and coalition troops. And this is not random. It can be exceptionally well co-ordinated.'Another source - who has seen the reporting - described an attack last year where two Frontier Corps outposts appear to have been directly involved in firing on Afghan forces before a militant attack. Frontier Corps personnel have in the past been implicated in the past in murdering US and Afghan officers. In the most high-profile case, a Frontier Corps member 'assassinated' Major Larry J Bauguess during a border mediation meeting. In another incident, an Afghan officer was killed. Since then the problem appears to have worsened as the Taliban renew their insurgency on the Afghan side of the border.'The United States and Nato have substantial information on this problem,' said an American official. 'It's taking place at a variety of places along the border with the Frontier Corps giving direct and indirect assistance. I'm not saying it is everyone. There are some parts that have been quite helpful... but if you have seen the after-action reports of their involvement in attacks along the Afghan border you would appreciate the problem.'James Appathurai, a Nato spokesman, said: 'The real concern is that the extremists in Pakistan are getting safe havens to rest, recuperate and retool in Pakistan and come across the border. The concerns have been conveyed to the Pakistan authorities.'Seth Jones, author of the Rand report, which found evidence of collaboration, said the issue had been troubling the US even before the invasion of Afghanistan: 'If you go back a decade to the Clinton administration when the US targeted militant camps, members of the Pakistani intelligence services were killed along with militants.' The allegation that senior Pakistani officials continue to offer lukewarm assistance to the coalition while offering help to the Taliban is also reiterated in Descent into Chaos, a new book by the veteran Pakistani author Ahmed Rashid.Relations between the US and Pakistan were strained this month when 11 members of the Frontier Corps were killed when the US allegedly bombed their outpost near the border town of Gora Prai during a gun battle with militants on the border. Pakistani sources have questioned why the troops were hiding in a bunker in the midst of the battle and why they were 'unaware' of an hour-long firefight going on so close by.The issue of the Taliban's ability to cross and recross the border with Pakistan into that country's Federally Administered Tribal Areas is becoming one of the most contentious issues of the war, with many - including Afghan President Hamid Karzai - insisting that his country is involved in a 'regional conflict' and threatening to send troops across the border.The death of the five soldiers yesterday came as the Taliban stepped up their offensive. It happened a day after two other US-led soldiers died in separate incidents, including a suicide bombing.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan troops 'aid Taliban'"},{"date": "2008-06-20T16:06:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's ruling party has ratcheted up pressure on President Pervez Musharraf to quit by declaring it would soon announce a successor.Asif Ali Zardari, leader of the Pakistan People's party, told supporters the new president would continue the legacy of his assassinated wife, Benazir Bhutto.\"The day is not far off, my brothers and sisters, when this gathering will be held in the president's house and God willing, your president will be sworn in and he will raise the slogan of 'long live Bhutto',\" he said. But Zardari did not say how he would remove Musharraf, and a meeting on the issue with his uneasy coalition partner Nawaz Sharif today failed to produce any agreement. Musharraf's fate has become a matter of near daily speculation. In theory he will be in office until 2012, but since his party was trounced in elections in February he has battled against an unremitting chorus of resignation calls. Most analysts say his demise is a matter of weeks or months \u2013 the question is whether he will jump or be pushed.Musharraf insists he will neither resign nor allow himself to be turned into a \"useless vegetable\" - a reference to plans to strip him of his powers. He has dared the government to impeach him in parliament, knowing that it lacks the required majority. The president's confidence stems from the support of two key allies - the army and the US president, George Bush, whose administration wants to protect its battered Pakistan policy in the run up to the autumn presidential elections. The obsession with Musharraf's fate has dominated politics at a time of pressing needs \u2013 the economy is nosediving and the country faces an unprecedented threat from Taliban militants \u2013 and it has fractured the fragile coalition government. Initial attempts by Zardari to coax Musharraf from office cost him popularity points among an impatient public. Meanwhile Sharif, who denounced Musharraf at every opportunity, has seen his profile rise. As a result the PPP recently aligned its policy with Sharif's by calling for Musharraf to be tried for treason - a crime that carries the death penalty. But as today's meeting in Lahore proved, the issue of how to oust him remains problematic. Efforts at unity are complicated by a related controversy over whether to restore about 45 judges fired by Musharraf last November. Sharif has pulled his ministers from cabinet in protest at the PPP's failure to reinstate the judges \u2013 including Musharraf's nemesis, the former chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. After today's talks a Sharif aide said that \"one or two more rounds of talks\" would be held to narrow the differences between the two sides.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan plans Musharraf 'successor'"},{"date": "2008-05-12T17:11:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's fragile coalition government suffered a bruising blow today when Nawaz Sharif, leader of the second largest party, pulled his ministers from the six-week-old cabinet. The withdrawal followed the collapse of talks with the leader of the largest party, Asif Ali Zardari, over how to reinstate about 45 senior judges who were sacked by President Pervez Musharraf last November. After last-ditch talks in Dubai and London, Sharif returned to Islamabad to announce that his ministers would resign tomorrow. Nine of the 24 cabinet positions, including finance minister, are held by Sharif loyalists. The split destabilises Pakistani politics and raised fears for the transition to civilian rule after nine years under Musharraf. But for now it is more of a political trial separation than a divorce. Sharif said he was \"very pained\" to withdraw his ministers and would not seek to collapse the fledgling government. Instead of joining the opposition his party would support Zardari's on an \"issue by issue\" basis. \"We will not become part of any conspiracy to destabilise the democratic process,\" he said.Zardari's Pakistan People's party (PPP) continued the conciliatory tone, saying the issue was not whether the judges should be restored but \"how best to do it\".The awkward manoeuvres between the political allies are the public face of a complex power negotiation involving Pakistani diplomats, military generals and influential American officials. On the surface, Sharif and Zardari are arguing about a relatively technical issue. Both agree that that sacked judges, including the firebrand former chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, should be reinstated. But while Sharif advocates their immediate return, Zardari's PPP wants a more cautious approach including a judicial reform package to limit the chief justice's powers. In reality, though, the controversy overlays a more sensitive debate about the fate of Musharraf, who suffered a humiliating defeat in last February's election. Musharraf has made it clear that he is not prepared to stomach the return of Chaudhry. And despite his electoral collapse he still enjoys the support of two powerful backers: the Pakistani military and the US government. President George Bush wants his old ally Musharraf to remain in power, and last weekend dispatched the assistant secretary of state Richard Boucher to meet with Zardari and Sharif in London \u2014 the latest of several meetings between US and Pakistani officials at critical junctures. Although in public the US favours a transition to civilian-led democracy, its first objective is to ensure cooperation in the hunt for al-Qaida and Taliban militants in Pakistan who may be plotting attacks on Afghanistan or the west. That cooperation is underscored by the Pakistani military, which also appears to want to keep Musharraf in power. The importance of those military ties was underscored today by a visit from the acting commander of US central command, Lieutenant General Martin Dempsey, to military headquarters in Rawalpindi. Before leaving he said the meetings were \"vital and productive, and I look forward to more visits with all of them in future\".The US role has dismayed civil society activists inside Pakistan. \"There's a lot of pressure from abroad but it's all for Pervez Musharraf,\" said senior lawyer Athar Minallah. \"But what do they gain out of him right now? It's beyond my comprehension.\"The resignation of Sharif's ministers leaves the government precariously exposed at a time of deepening economic difficulties and growing public impatience. Zardari's popularity is slipping and the media has become increasingly critical. If his party is entirely deserted by Sharif he will have to rely on support from Musharraf loyalists \u2014 a politically devastating blow. Meanwhile the country is burdened by chronic electricity shortages and rising inflation, running at 17% in April. Business confidence is also sliding: last week the Karachi stock exchange dipped 5% and the rupee slid to an all-time low against the US dollar.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Ministers quit Pakistan cabinet"},{"date": "2008-04-23T23:11:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "David Miliband has congratulated Pakistan on its return to democracy and advocates its re-entry into the Commonwealth (Pakistan's brief honeymoon, April 23). We also welcome the restoration of elections, but wish to urge the authorities to go further and join other civilised countries around the world in abolishing the death penalty. This week MPs, trade unions, students, Amnesty International and many community organisations are mounting a vigil outside the Pakistan high commission to halt the planned execution of Manjit Singh on May 1. Mr Singh is threatened with the death penalty for alleged terrorist activities. However, many believe he is innocent and that this is a case of mistaken identity. We are appealing to the Pakistani government to commute this death sentence and to abolish the death penalty altogether. John McDonnell MPLab, Hayes & Harlington Jeremy Corbyn MPLab, Islington North Virendra Sharma MPLab, Ealing Southall", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Plea to Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-04-15T05:56:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The International Federation of Journalists has called for an investigation into the murder of Pakistani journalist Khadim Hussain Sheikh. The bureau chief of Urdu daily newspaper Khabrein and a stinger for Sindh TV, in Baluchistan was travelling to his office on a motorbike with his brother when gunmen intercepted them. Both men were shot at close range. Khadim died instantly and his brother was seriously injured. He is the third journalist killed in Pakistan this year. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan journalist murdered"},{"date": "2008-05-29T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The next president of the United States will face real and serious national security challenges on a multitude of fronts, with al-Qaida at the top of the list. Nearly seven years after 9/11, its media outreach programme broadcasts messages on the airwaves and the internet, attempting to radicalise unaffiliated sympathisers into violent action. Regional groups in Iraq, Algeria and elsewhere place themselves under its brand in an effort to magnify their importance and gain funding as terrorist franchises. The threat from al-Qaida is diffuse, but US and foreign intelligence agencies have reached a strikingly unanimous conclusion that the core organisational leadership has re-formed itself.Its location? Pakistan.Al-Qaida has, in the words of the US director for national intelligence's February 2008 Annual Threat Assessment, \"retained or regenerated key elements of its capability, including top leadership, operational mid-level lieutenants and de facto safe haven in Pakistan's border area with Afghanistan\". Top officials at the CIA, state department and Joint Chiefs of Staff have all echoed this assessment in recent months. And under questioning from the Senate armed services committee at his confirmation hearing for the position of Centcom commander, which carries responsibility for Afghanistan and Pakistan as well as Iraq, General David Petraeus finally added his voice to this warning chorus as well.Unfortunately, the current political debate has yet to fully catch up to this reality. In part this derives from the administration's own history of neglect of this strategically central region. President Bush decided to leave the mission unaccomplished in Afghanistan, throw US support behind Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf despite his anti-democratic tendencies, and take our country into an unnecessary war of choice in Iraq, which continues to dominate policymakers' attention. Conservatives in Congress have never seriously questioned any of this. From 2005 to 2006, the 109th Congress managed to hold just one single hearing on Pakistan in all the armed services, foreign affairs, intelligence and oversight committees of both the House and Senate combined. Under Democratic leadership, the 110th Congress has to date held at least 16 congressional hearings on Pakistan alone.This is an important start, but arguments over negotiations with the regime of Iran and plans to withdraw or maintain US forces in Iraq have so far overshadowed the leading presidential candidates' plans for dealing with the situation in Pakistan, which have still not been articulated in full.Conservatives' lack of any new plans to close the safe havens that exist there now suggests that they will remain wedded to the status quo policies that have allowed al-Qaida to rebuild itself since 2002. The administration and its allies have previously used fears of Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" to justify their over-reliance on the Pakistani army, which is happy to encourage the notion in order to assure a continued influx of American military aid.In fact, militancy in Pakistan is largely concentrated along the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan. Popular opposition to the use of suicide bombings and other terror tactics has increased as Pakistanis have suffered attacks at the hands of domestic terrorists targeting the institutions of the state. Islamist political parties lost in large numbers in the most recent parliamentary elections, and both US and Pakistani military officials have dismissed any possibility that the country's nuclear arsenal could fall into the hands of terrorists. Prior to those elections, conservatives credited President Musharraf with saving Pakistan from itself, underplaying the role of the Pakistani military in suppressing democratic forces, and its historic support for militant groups operating under an Islamist banner as a means of checking domestic opposition and destabilising its neighbours.Conservatives are always ready to display their toughness and experience on national security, but a look beneath the surface finds they actually have no clear plan to make us more secure from the al-Qaida movement that killed 3,000 Americans on 9/11. Progressive candidates for office should not shy away from a national security debate they can win by offering serious strategies for the real threats facing America centred in Pakistan and Afghanistan. So long as conservatives cling to President Bush's policies of inertia in Iraq and passivity in Pakistan, their posturing on national security will continue to ring hollow.", "tags": ["US news", "Al-Qaida", "Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Time to focus on Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-04-12T05:15:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Five journalists were attacked by masked men and had their cameras destroyed while covering outbreaks of violence in Karachi on Wednesday. Lala Rukh, who works for the private television network Geo News, suffered a broken arm. The Pakistan Federal Union of Journalists condemned the incident and its general secretary, Mazhar Abbas, said: \"We fear for the safety and security of our colleagues\". (Via IFEX)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Masked men attack Pakistan journalists"},{"date": "2008-06-27T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"Pakistan is in a leaderless drift four months after elections\", concluded Carlotta Gall in the New York Times on June 24. Just two days later, comes news that \"Baitullah Mehsud, the head of the Pakistani Taliban\" has killed 22 members of an intermediary peace committee between the State of Pakistan and Mehsud. I guess there are some leaders in Pakistan, after all. Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" in the northwestern rural regions and the stalled lawyer's movement in the major cities appear, at first glance, to reflect a deep chasm within Pakistani society. This division, if one should call it anything, is routinely understood as a manifestation of moderate v extreme Islam. But that raises the question of why it manifests itself along rural/urban, and class lines.Extremist ideology, as we have learned in the last 8 years, is just as prone to attract highly-educated members of the professional class as unemployed, frustrated youth. We have to delve deeper into Pakistan's recent past if we are to understand the crisis it faces at the present. Sub-continental history is dotted with intermittent mass movement of people \u2013 usually triggered by famine, war or worse \u2013 replete with attendant tales of distress and misery. In my reckoning, the early 1970s saw the another key migration that has so far received little analysis. It involved vast numbers of men from the rural and semi-urban parts of Pakistan moving to the emerging oil-based oligarchies in the Gulf.This economic migration created a backflow of liquid capital to these same villages and towns in Punjab, Sindh and the Northwest Frontier Province. But it also provided a unique vehicle for the transferring of the various strains of Muslim experience into the rather stilted one, currently on everyone's lips \u2013 Wahhabism. Between 1975 and 1985, the number of Pakistanis in the Gulf states rose from 205,000 to 446,000, with over $2.5bn flowing back annually. At its height in the mid-1980s, nearly 10% of Pakistan's adult male workforce was employed in the Gulf states.These migrant workers \u2013 over 80% were unskilled or semi-skilled \u2013 usually lasted about 4-6 years in the Gulf states and were replaced by other family, clan, tribe or village members. What they sent home \u2013 goods and cash \u2013 were the dominant factor in bolstering the Pakistani economy throughout the 1970s and 1980s and one of the key factors in Pakistan's turn towards western Asia under Bhutto and Zia ul-Haq. The migration cooled down during the 1990s but since 2000 there has been an increase the flow of workers. Currently, Pakistani workers are heavily employed in Dubai, Kuwait and Iraq. This large-scale migration to the Middle East had significant effects on local economies and production cycles but perhaps more importantly, it has had a sociocultural impact on Pakistan. Just as significant was the religiosity that came back with the workers. Historically speaking, the Wahhabi reading of Islam had found little purchase on the subcontinent. Mainly because Wahhabi ideology is at odds with practices in Pakistani culture, which cherished its sufi saints. However, this migration allowed a vast population to unlearn their \"decadent\" and \"deviant\" practices from the \"pure practitioners\" in Saudi Arabia, Qatar or the Emirates. In the southern valleys and northern mountains dupattas were replaced with burkas and sufi shrines with madrasas. This cultural turn dovetailed with Zia ul-Haq's policies of Sunnification and the selling of jihad as a necessary commodity to the Pakistani people.Palestine, Chechnya and Kashmir became the de-facto topics at every Friday sermon from Doha and Riyadh to Dera Ghazi Khan and Rawalpindi. However, this Wahhabisation, which included a stricter, more literal interpretation of Qur'an, the demonisation of non-believers, antisemitic rhetoric, racism, the desire to \"fund\" jihads and so on, was never a straightforward process of important. Its progress was gradual and organic in a way that slowly de-legitimised established practices while distorting others: the spiritual guide was transformed into one who cast, or fought, black magic.It is hard to find a household, a conversation, in current day Pakistan that is free of such concerns. The practitioners combine the zeal of the Wahhabi imam with the bank-teller's command of charges due: $10 for the destruction of a marriage, $20 for an incantation for a ruined libido. All wrapped in literal reading of Qur'anic text.One cannot go further in examining this process of Wahhabisation without taking into account the impact of this migration of fathers on their families back home. What are the attitudes of this particular generation X towards the state? Can we really begin to look at the success or failure of the lawyer's movement without examining the Gulf Migration? Can we really talk about democracy without taking into account the roles of millions of Pakistanis as second or third rate citizens, with no rights in law as a person, in Gulf states? While many of us attempt to understand modern Pakistan in terms of political theory, or the appeal of fundamentalism in terms of theology neither of these approaches have proven fruitful. It is time that we broadened our scope of inquiry \u2013 to examine carefully labour and migration, civil and social structures, law and order, human rights and the effect they have on the many peoples of Pakistan.", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The Wahhabisation of Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-21T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Frontier Corps has been heavily infiltrated and influenced by Taliban militants, sometimes joining in attacks on coalition forces, according to classified US 'after-action' reports compiled following clashes on the border.According to those familiar with the material, regarded as deeply sensitive by the Pentagon in view of America's fragile relationship with Pakistan, there are 'box loads' of such reports at US bases along the length of the Pakistan-Afghan border. Details of the level of infiltration emerged yesterday on a day when five more US-led soldiers were killed in southern Afghanistan. Four of the soldiers died in a bomb and gunfire attack outside the southern city of Kandahar.Nato officials have reported a dramatic increase in cross-border incidents compared with the same period last year. The US documents describe the direct involvement of Frontier Corps troops in attacks on the Afghan National Army and coalition forces, and also detail attacks launched so close to Frontier Corps outposts that Pakistani co-operation with the Taliban is assumed. 'The reality,' said a source familiar with the situation on the ground, 'is that there are units so opposed to what the coalition is doing and so friendly to the other side that when the opportunity comes up they will fire on Afghan and coalition troops. And this is not random. It can be exceptionally well co-ordinated.'Another source - who has seen the reporting - described an attack last year where two Frontier Corps outposts appear to have been directly involved in firing on Afghan forces before a militant attack. Frontier Corps personnel have in the past been implicated in the past in murdering US and Afghan officers. In the most high-profile case, a Frontier Corps member 'assassinated' Major Larry J Bauguess during a border mediation meeting. In another incident, an Afghan officer was killed. Since then the problem appears to have worsened as the Taliban renew their insurgency on the Afghan side of the border.'The United States and Nato have substantial information on this problem,' said an American official. 'It's taking place at a variety of places along the border with the Frontier Corps giving direct and indirect assistance. I'm not saying it is everyone. There are some parts that have been quite helpful... but if you have seen the after-action reports of their involvement in attacks along the Afghan border you would appreciate the problem.'James Appathurai, a Nato spokesman, said: 'The real concern is that the extremists in Pakistan are getting safe havens to rest, recuperate and retool in Pakistan and come across the border. The concerns have been conveyed to the Pakistan authorities.'Seth Jones, author of the Rand report, which found evidence of collaboration, said the issue had been troubling the US even before the invasion of Afghanistan: 'If you go back a decade to the Clinton administration when the US targeted militant camps, members of the Pakistani intelligence services were killed along with militants.' The allegation that senior Pakistani officials continue to offer lukewarm assistance to the coalition while offering help to the Taliban is also reiterated in Descent into Chaos, a new book by the veteran Pakistani author Ahmed Rashid.Relations between the US and Pakistan were strained this month when 11 members of the Frontier Corps were killed when the US allegedly bombed their outpost near the border town of Gora Prai during a gun battle with militants on the border. Pakistani sources have questioned why the troops were hiding in a bunker in the midst of the battle and why they were 'unaware' of an hour-long firefight going on so close by.The issue of the Taliban's ability to cross and recross the border with Pakistan into that country's Federally Administered Tribal Areas is becoming one of the most contentious issues of the war, with many - including Afghan President Hamid Karzai - insisting that his country is involved in a 'regional conflict' and threatening to send troops across the border.The death of the five soldiers yesterday came as the Taliban stepped up their offensive. It happened a day after two other US-led soldiers died in separate incidents, including a suicide bombing.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan troops 'aid Taliban'"},{"date": "2008-06-20T16:06:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's ruling party has ratcheted up pressure on President Pervez Musharraf to quit by declaring it would soon announce a successor.Asif Ali Zardari, leader of the Pakistan People's party, told supporters the new president would continue the legacy of his assassinated wife, Benazir Bhutto.\"The day is not far off, my brothers and sisters, when this gathering will be held in the president's house and God willing, your president will be sworn in and he will raise the slogan of 'long live Bhutto',\" he said. But Zardari did not say how he would remove Musharraf, and a meeting on the issue with his uneasy coalition partner Nawaz Sharif today failed to produce any agreement. Musharraf's fate has become a matter of near daily speculation. In theory he will be in office until 2012, but since his party was trounced in elections in February he has battled against an unremitting chorus of resignation calls. Most analysts say his demise is a matter of weeks or months \u2013 the question is whether he will jump or be pushed.Musharraf insists he will neither resign nor allow himself to be turned into a \"useless vegetable\" - a reference to plans to strip him of his powers. He has dared the government to impeach him in parliament, knowing that it lacks the required majority. The president's confidence stems from the support of two key allies - the army and the US president, George Bush, whose administration wants to protect its battered Pakistan policy in the run up to the autumn presidential elections. The obsession with Musharraf's fate has dominated politics at a time of pressing needs \u2013 the economy is nosediving and the country faces an unprecedented threat from Taliban militants \u2013 and it has fractured the fragile coalition government. Initial attempts by Zardari to coax Musharraf from office cost him popularity points among an impatient public. Meanwhile Sharif, who denounced Musharraf at every opportunity, has seen his profile rise. As a result the PPP recently aligned its policy with Sharif's by calling for Musharraf to be tried for treason - a crime that carries the death penalty. But as today's meeting in Lahore proved, the issue of how to oust him remains problematic. Efforts at unity are complicated by a related controversy over whether to restore about 45 judges fired by Musharraf last November. Sharif has pulled his ministers from cabinet in protest at the PPP's failure to reinstate the judges \u2013 including Musharraf's nemesis, the former chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. After today's talks a Sharif aide said that \"one or two more rounds of talks\" would be held to narrow the differences between the two sides.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan plans Musharraf 'successor'"},{"date": "2008-05-12T17:11:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's fragile coalition government suffered a bruising blow today when Nawaz Sharif, leader of the second largest party, pulled his ministers from the six-week-old cabinet. The withdrawal followed the collapse of talks with the leader of the largest party, Asif Ali Zardari, over how to reinstate about 45 senior judges who were sacked by President Pervez Musharraf last November. After last-ditch talks in Dubai and London, Sharif returned to Islamabad to announce that his ministers would resign tomorrow. Nine of the 24 cabinet positions, including finance minister, are held by Sharif loyalists. The split destabilises Pakistani politics and raised fears for the transition to civilian rule after nine years under Musharraf. But for now it is more of a political trial separation than a divorce. Sharif said he was \"very pained\" to withdraw his ministers and would not seek to collapse the fledgling government. Instead of joining the opposition his party would support Zardari's on an \"issue by issue\" basis. \"We will not become part of any conspiracy to destabilise the democratic process,\" he said.Zardari's Pakistan People's party (PPP) continued the conciliatory tone, saying the issue was not whether the judges should be restored but \"how best to do it\".The awkward manoeuvres between the political allies are the public face of a complex power negotiation involving Pakistani diplomats, military generals and influential American officials. On the surface, Sharif and Zardari are arguing about a relatively technical issue. Both agree that that sacked judges, including the firebrand former chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, should be reinstated. But while Sharif advocates their immediate return, Zardari's PPP wants a more cautious approach including a judicial reform package to limit the chief justice's powers. In reality, though, the controversy overlays a more sensitive debate about the fate of Musharraf, who suffered a humiliating defeat in last February's election. Musharraf has made it clear that he is not prepared to stomach the return of Chaudhry. And despite his electoral collapse he still enjoys the support of two powerful backers: the Pakistani military and the US government. President George Bush wants his old ally Musharraf to remain in power, and last weekend dispatched the assistant secretary of state Richard Boucher to meet with Zardari and Sharif in London \u2014 the latest of several meetings between US and Pakistani officials at critical junctures. Although in public the US favours a transition to civilian-led democracy, its first objective is to ensure cooperation in the hunt for al-Qaida and Taliban militants in Pakistan who may be plotting attacks on Afghanistan or the west. That cooperation is underscored by the Pakistani military, which also appears to want to keep Musharraf in power. The importance of those military ties was underscored today by a visit from the acting commander of US central command, Lieutenant General Martin Dempsey, to military headquarters in Rawalpindi. Before leaving he said the meetings were \"vital and productive, and I look forward to more visits with all of them in future\".The US role has dismayed civil society activists inside Pakistan. \"There's a lot of pressure from abroad but it's all for Pervez Musharraf,\" said senior lawyer Athar Minallah. \"But what do they gain out of him right now? It's beyond my comprehension.\"The resignation of Sharif's ministers leaves the government precariously exposed at a time of deepening economic difficulties and growing public impatience. Zardari's popularity is slipping and the media has become increasingly critical. If his party is entirely deserted by Sharif he will have to rely on support from Musharraf loyalists \u2014 a politically devastating blow. Meanwhile the country is burdened by chronic electricity shortages and rising inflation, running at 17% in April. Business confidence is also sliding: last week the Karachi stock exchange dipped 5% and the rupee slid to an all-time low against the US dollar.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Ministers quit Pakistan cabinet"},{"date": "2008-04-23T23:11:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "David Miliband has congratulated Pakistan on its return to democracy and advocates its re-entry into the Commonwealth (Pakistan's brief honeymoon, April 23). We also welcome the restoration of elections, but wish to urge the authorities to go further and join other civilised countries around the world in abolishing the death penalty. This week MPs, trade unions, students, Amnesty International and many community organisations are mounting a vigil outside the Pakistan high commission to halt the planned execution of Manjit Singh on May 1. Mr Singh is threatened with the death penalty for alleged terrorist activities. However, many believe he is innocent and that this is a case of mistaken identity. We are appealing to the Pakistani government to commute this death sentence and to abolish the death penalty altogether. John McDonnell MPLab, Hayes & Harlington Jeremy Corbyn MPLab, Islington North Virendra Sharma MPLab, Ealing Southall", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Plea to Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-04-15T05:56:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The International Federation of Journalists has called for an investigation into the murder of Pakistani journalist Khadim Hussain Sheikh. The bureau chief of Urdu daily newspaper Khabrein and a stinger for Sindh TV, in Baluchistan was travelling to his office on a motorbike with his brother when gunmen intercepted them. Both men were shot at close range. Khadim died instantly and his brother was seriously injured. He is the third journalist killed in Pakistan this year. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan journalist murdered"},{"date": "2008-05-29T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The next president of the United States will face real and serious national security challenges on a multitude of fronts, with al-Qaida at the top of the list. Nearly seven years after 9/11, its media outreach programme broadcasts messages on the airwaves and the internet, attempting to radicalise unaffiliated sympathisers into violent action. Regional groups in Iraq, Algeria and elsewhere place themselves under its brand in an effort to magnify their importance and gain funding as terrorist franchises. The threat from al-Qaida is diffuse, but US and foreign intelligence agencies have reached a strikingly unanimous conclusion that the core organisational leadership has re-formed itself.Its location? Pakistan.Al-Qaida has, in the words of the US director for national intelligence's February 2008 Annual Threat Assessment, \"retained or regenerated key elements of its capability, including top leadership, operational mid-level lieutenants and de facto safe haven in Pakistan's border area with Afghanistan\". Top officials at the CIA, state department and Joint Chiefs of Staff have all echoed this assessment in recent months. And under questioning from the Senate armed services committee at his confirmation hearing for the position of Centcom commander, which carries responsibility for Afghanistan and Pakistan as well as Iraq, General David Petraeus finally added his voice to this warning chorus as well.Unfortunately, the current political debate has yet to fully catch up to this reality. In part this derives from the administration's own history of neglect of this strategically central region. President Bush decided to leave the mission unaccomplished in Afghanistan, throw US support behind Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf despite his anti-democratic tendencies, and take our country into an unnecessary war of choice in Iraq, which continues to dominate policymakers' attention. Conservatives in Congress have never seriously questioned any of this. From 2005 to 2006, the 109th Congress managed to hold just one single hearing on Pakistan in all the armed services, foreign affairs, intelligence and oversight committees of both the House and Senate combined. Under Democratic leadership, the 110th Congress has to date held at least 16 congressional hearings on Pakistan alone.This is an important start, but arguments over negotiations with the regime of Iran and plans to withdraw or maintain US forces in Iraq have so far overshadowed the leading presidential candidates' plans for dealing with the situation in Pakistan, which have still not been articulated in full.Conservatives' lack of any new plans to close the safe havens that exist there now suggests that they will remain wedded to the status quo policies that have allowed al-Qaida to rebuild itself since 2002. The administration and its allies have previously used fears of Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" to justify their over-reliance on the Pakistani army, which is happy to encourage the notion in order to assure a continued influx of American military aid.In fact, militancy in Pakistan is largely concentrated along the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan. Popular opposition to the use of suicide bombings and other terror tactics has increased as Pakistanis have suffered attacks at the hands of domestic terrorists targeting the institutions of the state. Islamist political parties lost in large numbers in the most recent parliamentary elections, and both US and Pakistani military officials have dismissed any possibility that the country's nuclear arsenal could fall into the hands of terrorists. Prior to those elections, conservatives credited President Musharraf with saving Pakistan from itself, underplaying the role of the Pakistani military in suppressing democratic forces, and its historic support for militant groups operating under an Islamist banner as a means of checking domestic opposition and destabilising its neighbours.Conservatives are always ready to display their toughness and experience on national security, but a look beneath the surface finds they actually have no clear plan to make us more secure from the al-Qaida movement that killed 3,000 Americans on 9/11. Progressive candidates for office should not shy away from a national security debate they can win by offering serious strategies for the real threats facing America centred in Pakistan and Afghanistan. So long as conservatives cling to President Bush's policies of inertia in Iraq and passivity in Pakistan, their posturing on national security will continue to ring hollow.", "tags": ["US news", "Al-Qaida", "Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Time to focus on Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-04-12T05:15:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Five journalists were attacked by masked men and had their cameras destroyed while covering outbreaks of violence in Karachi on Wednesday. Lala Rukh, who works for the private television network Geo News, suffered a broken arm. The Pakistan Federal Union of Journalists condemned the incident and its general secretary, Mazhar Abbas, said: \"We fear for the safety and security of our colleagues\". (Via IFEX)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Masked men attack Pakistan journalists"},{"date": "2008-06-25T12:07:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Authorities in north-west Pakistan today said a local Taliban militia killed 22 members of a rival tribe and left their bodies dumped on a roadside.The bodies were discovered outside the town of Jandola, following their abduction earlier this week.About 27 people from a pro-government tribe were taken by militants loyal to notorious Taliban commander Baitullah Mehsud when they overran the town on Monday.\"Some have bullet wounds but there were some who were killed with knives,\" Barkatullah Marvat, the top government official in the region, told Reuters.The abducted men were members of the Bhittani tribe and belonged to a government-run group promoting peace.\"It was inevitable they would be killed because they were very active and they had an old tribal feud with the Mehsuds,\" the official said.Mehsud, a member of the south Waziristan tribe, has emerged as Pakistan's most feared militant over the past year.He has been linked to a string of suicide attacks across the country, including the December violence that killed the former prime-minister, Benazir Bhutto.Jandola is on the road to the south Waziristan Pashtun tribal region on the Afghan border. Residents said Mehsud's men had withdrawn from Jandola since Monday, fearing military reprisal, and handed over control to some allies from the Bhittani tribe.", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan: Taliban kill 22 tribal rivals"},{"date": "2008-06-27T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"Pakistan is in a leaderless drift four months after elections\", concluded Carlotta Gall in the New York Times on June 24. Just two days later, comes news that \"Baitullah Mehsud, the head of the Pakistani Taliban\" has killed 22 members of an intermediary peace committee between the State of Pakistan and Mehsud. I guess there are some leaders in Pakistan, after all. Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" in the northwestern rural regions and the stalled lawyer's movement in the major cities appear, at first glance, to reflect a deep chasm within Pakistani society. This division, if one should call it anything, is routinely understood as a manifestation of moderate v extreme Islam. But that raises the question of why it manifests itself along rural/urban, and class lines.Extremist ideology, as we have learned in the last 8 years, is just as prone to attract highly-educated members of the professional class as unemployed, frustrated youth. We have to delve deeper into Pakistan's recent past if we are to understand the crisis it faces at the present. Sub-continental history is dotted with intermittent mass movement of people \u2013 usually triggered by famine, war or worse \u2013 replete with attendant tales of distress and misery. In my reckoning, the early 1970s saw the another key migration that has so far received little analysis. It involved vast numbers of men from the rural and semi-urban parts of Pakistan moving to the emerging oil-based oligarchies in the Gulf.This economic migration created a backflow of liquid capital to these same villages and towns in Punjab, Sindh and the Northwest Frontier Province. But it also provided a unique vehicle for the transferring of the various strains of Muslim experience into the rather stilted one, currently on everyone's lips \u2013 Wahhabism. Between 1975 and 1985, the number of Pakistanis in the Gulf states rose from 205,000 to 446,000, with over $2.5bn flowing back annually. At its height in the mid-1980s, nearly 10% of Pakistan's adult male workforce was employed in the Gulf states.These migrant workers \u2013 over 80% were unskilled or semi-skilled \u2013 usually lasted about 4-6 years in the Gulf states and were replaced by other family, clan, tribe or village members. What they sent home \u2013 goods and cash \u2013 were the dominant factor in bolstering the Pakistani economy throughout the 1970s and 1980s and one of the key factors in Pakistan's turn towards western Asia under Bhutto and Zia ul-Haq. The migration cooled down during the 1990s but since 2000 there has been an increase the flow of workers. Currently, Pakistani workers are heavily employed in Dubai, Kuwait and Iraq. This large-scale migration to the Middle East had significant effects on local economies and production cycles but perhaps more importantly, it has had a sociocultural impact on Pakistan. Just as significant was the religiosity that came back with the workers. Historically speaking, the Wahhabi reading of Islam had found little purchase on the subcontinent. Mainly because Wahhabi ideology is at odds with practices in Pakistani culture, which cherished its sufi saints. However, this migration allowed a vast population to unlearn their \"decadent\" and \"deviant\" practices from the \"pure practitioners\" in Saudi Arabia, Qatar or the Emirates. In the southern valleys and northern mountains dupattas were replaced with burkas and sufi shrines with madrasas. This cultural turn dovetailed with Zia ul-Haq's policies of Sunnification and the selling of jihad as a necessary commodity to the Pakistani people.Palestine, Chechnya and Kashmir became the de-facto topics at every Friday sermon from Doha and Riyadh to Dera Ghazi Khan and Rawalpindi. However, this Wahhabisation, which included a stricter, more literal interpretation of Qur'an, the demonisation of non-believers, antisemitic rhetoric, racism, the desire to \"fund\" jihads and so on, was never a straightforward process of important. Its progress was gradual and organic in a way that slowly de-legitimised established practices while distorting others: the spiritual guide was transformed into one who cast, or fought, black magic.It is hard to find a household, a conversation, in current day Pakistan that is free of such concerns. The practitioners combine the zeal of the Wahhabi imam with the bank-teller's command of charges due: $10 for the destruction of a marriage, $20 for an incantation for a ruined libido. All wrapped in literal reading of Qur'anic text.One cannot go further in examining this process of Wahhabisation without taking into account the impact of this migration of fathers on their families back home. What are the attitudes of this particular generation X towards the state? Can we really begin to look at the success or failure of the lawyer's movement without examining the Gulf Migration? Can we really talk about democracy without taking into account the roles of millions of Pakistanis as second or third rate citizens, with no rights in law as a person, in Gulf states? While many of us attempt to understand modern Pakistan in terms of political theory, or the appeal of fundamentalism in terms of theology neither of these approaches have proven fruitful. It is time that we broadened our scope of inquiry \u2013 to examine carefully labour and migration, civil and social structures, law and order, human rights and the effect they have on the many peoples of Pakistan.", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The Wahhabisation of Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-06-21T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Frontier Corps has been heavily infiltrated and influenced by Taliban militants, sometimes joining in attacks on coalition forces, according to classified US 'after-action' reports compiled following clashes on the border.According to those familiar with the material, regarded as deeply sensitive by the Pentagon in view of America's fragile relationship with Pakistan, there are 'box loads' of such reports at US bases along the length of the Pakistan-Afghan border. Details of the level of infiltration emerged yesterday on a day when five more US-led soldiers were killed in southern Afghanistan. Four of the soldiers died in a bomb and gunfire attack outside the southern city of Kandahar.Nato officials have reported a dramatic increase in cross-border incidents compared with the same period last year. The US documents describe the direct involvement of Frontier Corps troops in attacks on the Afghan National Army and coalition forces, and also detail attacks launched so close to Frontier Corps outposts that Pakistani co-operation with the Taliban is assumed. 'The reality,' said a source familiar with the situation on the ground, 'is that there are units so opposed to what the coalition is doing and so friendly to the other side that when the opportunity comes up they will fire on Afghan and coalition troops. And this is not random. It can be exceptionally well co-ordinated.'Another source - who has seen the reporting - described an attack last year where two Frontier Corps outposts appear to have been directly involved in firing on Afghan forces before a militant attack. Frontier Corps personnel have in the past been implicated in the past in murdering US and Afghan officers. In the most high-profile case, a Frontier Corps member 'assassinated' Major Larry J Bauguess during a border mediation meeting. In another incident, an Afghan officer was killed. Since then the problem appears to have worsened as the Taliban renew their insurgency on the Afghan side of the border.'The United States and Nato have substantial information on this problem,' said an American official. 'It's taking place at a variety of places along the border with the Frontier Corps giving direct and indirect assistance. I'm not saying it is everyone. There are some parts that have been quite helpful... but if you have seen the after-action reports of their involvement in attacks along the Afghan border you would appreciate the problem.'James Appathurai, a Nato spokesman, said: 'The real concern is that the extremists in Pakistan are getting safe havens to rest, recuperate and retool in Pakistan and come across the border. The concerns have been conveyed to the Pakistan authorities.'Seth Jones, author of the Rand report, which found evidence of collaboration, said the issue had been troubling the US even before the invasion of Afghanistan: 'If you go back a decade to the Clinton administration when the US targeted militant camps, members of the Pakistani intelligence services were killed along with militants.' The allegation that senior Pakistani officials continue to offer lukewarm assistance to the coalition while offering help to the Taliban is also reiterated in Descent into Chaos, a new book by the veteran Pakistani author Ahmed Rashid.Relations between the US and Pakistan were strained this month when 11 members of the Frontier Corps were killed when the US allegedly bombed their outpost near the border town of Gora Prai during a gun battle with militants on the border. Pakistani sources have questioned why the troops were hiding in a bunker in the midst of the battle and why they were 'unaware' of an hour-long firefight going on so close by.The issue of the Taliban's ability to cross and recross the border with Pakistan into that country's Federally Administered Tribal Areas is becoming one of the most contentious issues of the war, with many - including Afghan President Hamid Karzai - insisting that his country is involved in a 'regional conflict' and threatening to send troops across the border.The death of the five soldiers yesterday came as the Taliban stepped up their offensive. It happened a day after two other US-led soldiers died in separate incidents, including a suicide bombing.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan troops 'aid Taliban'"},{"date": "2008-06-20T16:06:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's ruling party has ratcheted up pressure on President Pervez Musharraf to quit by declaring it would soon announce a successor.Asif Ali Zardari, leader of the Pakistan People's party, told supporters the new president would continue the legacy of his assassinated wife, Benazir Bhutto.\"The day is not far off, my brothers and sisters, when this gathering will be held in the president's house and God willing, your president will be sworn in and he will raise the slogan of 'long live Bhutto',\" he said. But Zardari did not say how he would remove Musharraf, and a meeting on the issue with his uneasy coalition partner Nawaz Sharif today failed to produce any agreement. Musharraf's fate has become a matter of near daily speculation. In theory he will be in office until 2012, but since his party was trounced in elections in February he has battled against an unremitting chorus of resignation calls. Most analysts say his demise is a matter of weeks or months \u2013 the question is whether he will jump or be pushed.Musharraf insists he will neither resign nor allow himself to be turned into a \"useless vegetable\" - a reference to plans to strip him of his powers. He has dared the government to impeach him in parliament, knowing that it lacks the required majority. The president's confidence stems from the support of two key allies - the army and the US president, George Bush, whose administration wants to protect its battered Pakistan policy in the run up to the autumn presidential elections. The obsession with Musharraf's fate has dominated politics at a time of pressing needs \u2013 the economy is nosediving and the country faces an unprecedented threat from Taliban militants \u2013 and it has fractured the fragile coalition government. Initial attempts by Zardari to coax Musharraf from office cost him popularity points among an impatient public. Meanwhile Sharif, who denounced Musharraf at every opportunity, has seen his profile rise. As a result the PPP recently aligned its policy with Sharif's by calling for Musharraf to be tried for treason - a crime that carries the death penalty. But as today's meeting in Lahore proved, the issue of how to oust him remains problematic. Efforts at unity are complicated by a related controversy over whether to restore about 45 judges fired by Musharraf last November. Sharif has pulled his ministers from cabinet in protest at the PPP's failure to reinstate the judges \u2013 including Musharraf's nemesis, the former chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. After today's talks a Sharif aide said that \"one or two more rounds of talks\" would be held to narrow the differences between the two sides.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan plans Musharraf 'successor'"},{"date": "2008-05-12T17:11:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's fragile coalition government suffered a bruising blow today when Nawaz Sharif, leader of the second largest party, pulled his ministers from the six-week-old cabinet. The withdrawal followed the collapse of talks with the leader of the largest party, Asif Ali Zardari, over how to reinstate about 45 senior judges who were sacked by President Pervez Musharraf last November. After last-ditch talks in Dubai and London, Sharif returned to Islamabad to announce that his ministers would resign tomorrow. Nine of the 24 cabinet positions, including finance minister, are held by Sharif loyalists. The split destabilises Pakistani politics and raised fears for the transition to civilian rule after nine years under Musharraf. But for now it is more of a political trial separation than a divorce. Sharif said he was \"very pained\" to withdraw his ministers and would not seek to collapse the fledgling government. Instead of joining the opposition his party would support Zardari's on an \"issue by issue\" basis. \"We will not become part of any conspiracy to destabilise the democratic process,\" he said.Zardari's Pakistan People's party (PPP) continued the conciliatory tone, saying the issue was not whether the judges should be restored but \"how best to do it\".The awkward manoeuvres between the political allies are the public face of a complex power negotiation involving Pakistani diplomats, military generals and influential American officials. On the surface, Sharif and Zardari are arguing about a relatively technical issue. Both agree that that sacked judges, including the firebrand former chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, should be reinstated. But while Sharif advocates their immediate return, Zardari's PPP wants a more cautious approach including a judicial reform package to limit the chief justice's powers. In reality, though, the controversy overlays a more sensitive debate about the fate of Musharraf, who suffered a humiliating defeat in last February's election. Musharraf has made it clear that he is not prepared to stomach the return of Chaudhry. And despite his electoral collapse he still enjoys the support of two powerful backers: the Pakistani military and the US government. President George Bush wants his old ally Musharraf to remain in power, and last weekend dispatched the assistant secretary of state Richard Boucher to meet with Zardari and Sharif in London \u2014 the latest of several meetings between US and Pakistani officials at critical junctures. Although in public the US favours a transition to civilian-led democracy, its first objective is to ensure cooperation in the hunt for al-Qaida and Taliban militants in Pakistan who may be plotting attacks on Afghanistan or the west. That cooperation is underscored by the Pakistani military, which also appears to want to keep Musharraf in power. The importance of those military ties was underscored today by a visit from the acting commander of US central command, Lieutenant General Martin Dempsey, to military headquarters in Rawalpindi. Before leaving he said the meetings were \"vital and productive, and I look forward to more visits with all of them in future\".The US role has dismayed civil society activists inside Pakistan. \"There's a lot of pressure from abroad but it's all for Pervez Musharraf,\" said senior lawyer Athar Minallah. \"But what do they gain out of him right now? It's beyond my comprehension.\"The resignation of Sharif's ministers leaves the government precariously exposed at a time of deepening economic difficulties and growing public impatience. Zardari's popularity is slipping and the media has become increasingly critical. If his party is entirely deserted by Sharif he will have to rely on support from Musharraf loyalists \u2014 a politically devastating blow. Meanwhile the country is burdened by chronic electricity shortages and rising inflation, running at 17% in April. Business confidence is also sliding: last week the Karachi stock exchange dipped 5% and the rupee slid to an all-time low against the US dollar.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Ministers quit Pakistan cabinet"},{"date": "2008-04-23T23:11:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "David Miliband has congratulated Pakistan on its return to democracy and advocates its re-entry into the Commonwealth (Pakistan's brief honeymoon, April 23). We also welcome the restoration of elections, but wish to urge the authorities to go further and join other civilised countries around the world in abolishing the death penalty. This week MPs, trade unions, students, Amnesty International and many community organisations are mounting a vigil outside the Pakistan high commission to halt the planned execution of Manjit Singh on May 1. Mr Singh is threatened with the death penalty for alleged terrorist activities. However, many believe he is innocent and that this is a case of mistaken identity. We are appealing to the Pakistani government to commute this death sentence and to abolish the death penalty altogether. John McDonnell MPLab, Hayes & Harlington Jeremy Corbyn MPLab, Islington North Virendra Sharma MPLab, Ealing Southall", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Letter: Plea to Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-04-15T05:56:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The International Federation of Journalists has called for an investigation into the murder of Pakistani journalist Khadim Hussain Sheikh. The bureau chief of Urdu daily newspaper Khabrein and a stinger for Sindh TV, in Baluchistan was travelling to his office on a motorbike with his brother when gunmen intercepted them. Both men were shot at close range. Khadim died instantly and his brother was seriously injured. He is the third journalist killed in Pakistan this year. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan journalist murdered"},{"date": "2008-05-29T19:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The next president of the United States will face real and serious national security challenges on a multitude of fronts, with al-Qaida at the top of the list. Nearly seven years after 9/11, its media outreach programme broadcasts messages on the airwaves and the internet, attempting to radicalise unaffiliated sympathisers into violent action. Regional groups in Iraq, Algeria and elsewhere place themselves under its brand in an effort to magnify their importance and gain funding as terrorist franchises. The threat from al-Qaida is diffuse, but US and foreign intelligence agencies have reached a strikingly unanimous conclusion that the core organisational leadership has re-formed itself.Its location? Pakistan.Al-Qaida has, in the words of the US director for national intelligence's February 2008 Annual Threat Assessment, \"retained or regenerated key elements of its capability, including top leadership, operational mid-level lieutenants and de facto safe haven in Pakistan's border area with Afghanistan\". Top officials at the CIA, state department and Joint Chiefs of Staff have all echoed this assessment in recent months. And under questioning from the Senate armed services committee at his confirmation hearing for the position of Centcom commander, which carries responsibility for Afghanistan and Pakistan as well as Iraq, General David Petraeus finally added his voice to this warning chorus as well.Unfortunately, the current political debate has yet to fully catch up to this reality. In part this derives from the administration's own history of neglect of this strategically central region. President Bush decided to leave the mission unaccomplished in Afghanistan, throw US support behind Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf despite his anti-democratic tendencies, and take our country into an unnecessary war of choice in Iraq, which continues to dominate policymakers' attention. Conservatives in Congress have never seriously questioned any of this. From 2005 to 2006, the 109th Congress managed to hold just one single hearing on Pakistan in all the armed services, foreign affairs, intelligence and oversight committees of both the House and Senate combined. Under Democratic leadership, the 110th Congress has to date held at least 16 congressional hearings on Pakistan alone.This is an important start, but arguments over negotiations with the regime of Iran and plans to withdraw or maintain US forces in Iraq have so far overshadowed the leading presidential candidates' plans for dealing with the situation in Pakistan, which have still not been articulated in full.Conservatives' lack of any new plans to close the safe havens that exist there now suggests that they will remain wedded to the status quo policies that have allowed al-Qaida to rebuild itself since 2002. The administration and its allies have previously used fears of Pakistan's \"Talibanisation\" to justify their over-reliance on the Pakistani army, which is happy to encourage the notion in order to assure a continued influx of American military aid.In fact, militancy in Pakistan is largely concentrated along the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan. Popular opposition to the use of suicide bombings and other terror tactics has increased as Pakistanis have suffered attacks at the hands of domestic terrorists targeting the institutions of the state. Islamist political parties lost in large numbers in the most recent parliamentary elections, and both US and Pakistani military officials have dismissed any possibility that the country's nuclear arsenal could fall into the hands of terrorists. Prior to those elections, conservatives credited President Musharraf with saving Pakistan from itself, underplaying the role of the Pakistani military in suppressing democratic forces, and its historic support for militant groups operating under an Islamist banner as a means of checking domestic opposition and destabilising its neighbours.Conservatives are always ready to display their toughness and experience on national security, but a look beneath the surface finds they actually have no clear plan to make us more secure from the al-Qaida movement that killed 3,000 Americans on 9/11. Progressive candidates for office should not shy away from a national security debate they can win by offering serious strategies for the real threats facing America centred in Pakistan and Afghanistan. So long as conservatives cling to President Bush's policies of inertia in Iraq and passivity in Pakistan, their posturing on national security will continue to ring hollow.", "tags": ["US news", "Al-Qaida", "Pakistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Time to focus on Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-04-12T05:15:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Five journalists were attacked by masked men and had their cameras destroyed while covering outbreaks of violence in Karachi on Wednesday. Lala Rukh, who works for the private television network Geo News, suffered a broken arm. The Pakistan Federal Union of Journalists condemned the incident and its general secretary, Mazhar Abbas, said: \"We fear for the safety and security of our colleagues\". (Via IFEX)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Masked men attack Pakistan journalists"},{"date": "2008-06-25T12:07:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Authorities in north-west Pakistan today said a local Taliban militia killed 22 members of a rival tribe and left their bodies dumped on a roadside.The bodies were discovered outside the town of Jandola, following their abduction earlier this week.About 27 people from a pro-government tribe were taken by militants loyal to notorious Taliban commander Baitullah Mehsud when they overran the town on Monday.\"Some have bullet wounds but there were some who were killed with knives,\" Barkatullah Marvat, the top government official in the region, told Reuters.The abducted men were members of the Bhittani tribe and belonged to a government-run group promoting peace.\"It was inevitable they would be killed because they were very active and they had an old tribal feud with the Mehsuds,\" the official said.Mehsud, a member of the south Waziristan tribe, has emerged as Pakistan's most feared militant over the past year.He has been linked to a string of suicide attacks across the country, including the December violence that killed the former prime-minister, Benazir Bhutto.Jandola is on the road to the south Waziristan Pashtun tribal region on the Afghan border. Residents said Mehsud's men had withdrawn from Jandola since Monday, fearing military reprisal, and handed over control to some allies from the Bhittani tribe.", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan: Taliban kill 22 tribal rivals"},{"date": "2008-06-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Without Nato action to tackle Taliban operations in Pakistan, it will be impossible to prevent the growth of the insurgency in Afghanistan (Karzai threatens to send troops into Pakistan, June 16).Taliban forces continue to use tribal areas in Pakistan's North West Frontier Province as a staging post. Militants once trained by Pakistan as part of their strategic arsenal against India have now fallen outside of their mentor's control. Islamabad's response oscillates between military containment and political mediation. Both approaches have failed, allowing Taliban command and control structures to relocate to Quetta, and parts of Waziristan to fall under the complete control of local Taliban elements.These loose cannons pose a security risk to the people of Afghanistan and Nato/Isaf forces, and more direct measures to block their passage to and from Afghanistan must be implemented. Most urgently, key posts on the border should be run by Nato/Isaf until the Afghan army and police reach sufficient strength and experience. This would stem the tide while averting a major state-to-state confrontation that neither Pakistan nor Afghanistan can afford.Paul BurtonDirector of policy analysis, Senlis CouncilDes Browne says the Taliban are no longer willing to fight a conventional war. If he considers attacking them with unmanned aircraft controlled from a base in the US or with the aid of \"smart\" electronic devices that only our side have is fighting a conventional war, he should consider how we would respond if our roles were reversed. Survival is the strongest of all human instincts.Brian ChristleyAbergele, Conwy", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Nato", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Letters: Nato must tackle the Taliban in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-09-22T10:15:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistanis have to shed any illusions about the militants who blew up the Marriot hotel, the News, a national daily newspaper, declares in a tough editorial.It is senseless to point fingers elsewhere. We must wake up to the fact that these people come from amongst us; they target venues within the country and they kill their own countrymen. It is time we accepted this war is our own.The News goes on to argue that the tendency to give the militants the benefit of the doubt has allowed them to flourish and says the government must lose no time in building a consensus to take on the terrorists.The opinions we still hear everywhere, in roadside cafes, in offices - and among the country's establishment - that the militants who have entrenched themselves in northern areas are 'good' people, that force should not be used against them - is one reason why we today face such high levels of peril.Anatol Lieven, writing in the Times, discusses the excuses ordinary Pakistanis make for the terrorists. After dozens of workers were killed at a munitions complex last month, many Pakistanis told him the attack was justified because it was a military target and the military were taking American money to kill their own people.The latest attack, he says, may lead to a stronger determination for the civilian government and the military to work together to defeat extremists. It may remind the west that Pakistan is not just an aspect of its campaign in Afghanistan but a much more important country. \"It needs all the help we can give,\" he concludes.Taking up this theme of aid, the Independent says it may be too much to expect that a large amount of foreign aid can help, but in the absence of any other solution it remains the only hope.In the same paper, Yasmin Alibhai-Brown  throws up her hands in despair at the willingness of Muslims to inflict death and suffering on fellow Muslims.I, a Muslim who fights daily against the unjust treatment of Muslims in the west, have to face the blinding truth that although we have serious external enemies, more Muslims are hurt, wounded, killed and denied by other Muslims who feel themselves to be virtuous.Dawn, another Pakistani paper, bemoans the lack of leadership as the country lurches deeper into crisis.What is truly distressing about Pakistan is the utter lack of any visible direction. Since August 6, Pakistan has been fighting militants in Bajaur. Yet virtually no one in the country is aware of who we are fighting and why. Worse yet, it's not clear who is responsible for the operation: the political government, the military or both? Is it any surprise that the people are confused and split when they do not know who we are fighting, why we are fighting and even who 'we' is?", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan sheds illusions"},{"date": "2008-09-22T10:15:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistanis have to shed any illusions about the militants who blew up the Marriot hotel, the News, a national daily newspaper, declares in a tough editorial.It is senseless to point fingers elsewhere. We must wake up to the fact that these people come from amongst us; they target venues within the country and they kill their own countrymen. It is time we accepted this war is our own.The News goes on to argue that the tendency to give the militants the benefit of the doubt has allowed them to flourish and says the government must lose no time in building a consensus to take on the terrorists.The opinions we still hear everywhere, in roadside cafes, in offices - and among the country's establishment - that the militants who have entrenched themselves in northern areas are 'good' people, that force should not be used against them - is one reason why we today face such high levels of peril.Anatol Lieven, writing in the Times, discusses the excuses ordinary Pakistanis make for the terrorists. After dozens of workers were killed at a munitions complex last month, many Pakistanis told him the attack was justified because it was a military target and the military were taking American money to kill their own people.The latest attack, he says, may lead to a stronger determination for the civilian government and the military to work together to defeat extremists. It may remind the west that Pakistan is not just an aspect of its campaign in Afghanistan but a much more important country. \"It needs all the help we can give,\" he concludes.Taking up this theme of aid, the Independent says it may be too much to expect that a large amount of foreign aid can help, but in the absence of any other solution it remains the only hope.In the same paper, Yasmin Alibhai-Brown  throws up her hands in despair at the willingness of Muslims to inflict death and suffering on fellow Muslims.I, a Muslim who fights daily against the unjust treatment of Muslims in the west, have to face the blinding truth that although we have serious external enemies, more Muslims are hurt, wounded, killed and denied by other Muslims who feel themselves to be virtuous.Dawn, another Pakistani paper, bemoans the lack of leadership as the country lurches deeper into crisis.What is truly distressing about Pakistan is the utter lack of any visible direction. Since August 6, Pakistan has been fighting militants in Bajaur. Yet virtually no one in the country is aware of who we are fighting and why. Worse yet, it's not clear who is responsible for the operation: the political government, the military or both? Is it any surprise that the people are confused and split when they do not know who we are fighting, why we are fighting and even who 'we' is?", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan sheds illusions"},{"date": "2008-09-05T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the Asian Human Rights Commission website that first alerted me to the fact that five women had been buried alive as part of an honour killing in the tribal area of Baluchistan \u2013 an atrocity beyond imagination. Within days this tragedy had been reported in the Pakistan national press and almost immediately Baluchistan's Senator Yasmeen Shah took the case to the senate.The treatment of these women shocked and angered me \u2013 and countless others throughout Pakistan. On top of that, when I heard that Senator Israrullah Zehri and Senator Jan Mohammad Jamali stood up in the senate and attempted to justify the murders as \"Baluch tradition\" I was in despair. They said that we should not even be discussing Baluch traditions in the senate. Fortunately, they represent a minority mindset. The case has caused a national uproar. When I realised that the senate was unlikely to take the murders seriously I started to organise. (I've long been involved in human rights issues, writing articles and organising public protests.) I sent emails to various NGOs, human rights activists and also to the Women's Action Forum, calling on them to demonstrate in front of the senate in Islamabad. Although on such short notice I had expected around 100 protesters to come, on the day we had more than three times that number.  I am now working closely with Yasmeen Shah, whom I met for the first time at our demonstration. At our request she is now trying to get someone who believes in human rights to join the special committee that has been set up to investigate this crime. There needs to be an independent voice or the entire process will be biased toward Baluch politics. These atrocities represent the structural violence against women in Pakistan. They certainly made me realise that enormous steps have to be taken in the judicial and tribal systems, which thrive on gender hierarchies and inequalities. The people who are guardians of these systems take any challenge \u2013 particularly from women \u2013 as a threat. I feel that the desire to control women's lives and their sexuality is far greater in areas where feudal and tribal systems are prevalent. For example, you will not find the same oppression of women in Islamabad, Karachi or Lahore. But where there is a strong tribal or feudal hold you see that women's sexuality is strictly controlled by the family \u2013 and particularly the male members of the family. I believe that it's high time we introduce land reforms to do away with the tribal and chiefdom systems. We also need to do away with parallel judicial systems such as jirga and punchyat. It's the elected representatives of these systems who have huge stakes in maintaining the gender status quo, and there is very little hope for us that they will do anything to protect women. It is not going to be an easy fight.I believe that the men involved in these honour killings should be arrested and put through the due process of law, but this is not happening in Pakistan. Sadly, the people who inflict this violence on women are getting away with it because they are influential and can manipulate the legal system to escape punishment. And they do. But I believe we should not let this case go. We have to make sure that the perpetrators are punished. We should also ask for long-term legal changes to be made so that women in this country can expect some protection from the law. Although I was shocked and very angry to hear about the murder of these five Baluch women, it's not the first time that this sort of thing has happened. There have been other cases, equally barbaric, that didn't receive such attention. A few months ago, for instance, there was an incident in southern Punjab \u2013 a village woman was accused of having an illegitimate relationship and was stoned to death. Gender inequality is endemic throughout Pakistan, but its manifestation differs between urban and rural areas, and also between social classes. At a professional level, I don't face severe discrimination, but as the head of the Department of Gender Studies at Quaid-e-Azam University in Islamabad, I feel that the university administration, which is run mostly by men, has been unsupportive of my department and at one point even tried to kill it off. Various vice-chancellors along the way have said that gender studies is not a discipline but a mere western clich\u00e9 with no relevance to Pakistan. Other bias I have experienced comes as the result of being vocal about gender issues. When members of the militant group Jamai Hafsa took over the children's library at the Red Mosque in Islamabad and demanded the promulgation of Sharia law, I protested against them. I've been very active in the repeal of the Islamic Hudood legislation that requires, for example, a woman who has been raped to procure four male Muslim witnesses to support her case. Without four male Muslim witnesses, she could find herself accused of adultery and stoned to death. There are fatwas issued against me saying that I should be killed as I am not a Muslim woman. I feel a general sense of insecurity because the people I'm up against are very militant. I feel that at any time they can walk into my home and slit my throat. It is the kind of risk that I have to live with. If I let fear in it will incapacitate me. I have to remain brave, because there are so many risks. As an activist and a professional, I keep seeing different manifestations of this terrible gender bias \u2013 of which the latest is the unfathomable brutality of these Baluchistan honour killings.\u2022 Dr Farzana Bari was interviewed by Saundra Satterlee.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "Religion", "Human rights"], "title": "Deadly traditions in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-09-22T10:15:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistanis have to shed any illusions about the militants who blew up the Marriot hotel, the News, a national daily newspaper, declares in a tough editorial.It is senseless to point fingers elsewhere. We must wake up to the fact that these people come from amongst us; they target venues within the country and they kill their own countrymen. It is time we accepted this war is our own.The News goes on to argue that the tendency to give the militants the benefit of the doubt has allowed them to flourish and says the government must lose no time in building a consensus to take on the terrorists.The opinions we still hear everywhere, in roadside cafes, in offices - and among the country's establishment - that the militants who have entrenched themselves in northern areas are 'good' people, that force should not be used against them - is one reason why we today face such high levels of peril.Anatol Lieven, writing in the Times, discusses the excuses ordinary Pakistanis make for the terrorists. After dozens of workers were killed at a munitions complex last month, many Pakistanis told him the attack was justified because it was a military target and the military were taking American money to kill their own people.The latest attack, he says, may lead to a stronger determination for the civilian government and the military to work together to defeat extremists. It may remind the west that Pakistan is not just an aspect of its campaign in Afghanistan but a much more important country. \"It needs all the help we can give,\" he concludes.Taking up this theme of aid, the Independent says it may be too much to expect that a large amount of foreign aid can help, but in the absence of any other solution it remains the only hope.In the same paper, Yasmin Alibhai-Brown  throws up her hands in despair at the willingness of Muslims to inflict death and suffering on fellow Muslims.I, a Muslim who fights daily against the unjust treatment of Muslims in the west, have to face the blinding truth that although we have serious external enemies, more Muslims are hurt, wounded, killed and denied by other Muslims who feel themselves to be virtuous.Dawn, another Pakistani paper, bemoans the lack of leadership as the country lurches deeper into crisis.What is truly distressing about Pakistan is the utter lack of any visible direction. Since August 6, Pakistan has been fighting militants in Bajaur. Yet virtually no one in the country is aware of who we are fighting and why. Worse yet, it's not clear who is responsible for the operation: the political government, the military or both? Is it any surprise that the people are confused and split when they do not know who we are fighting, why we are fighting and even who 'we' is?", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan sheds illusions"},{"date": "2008-09-05T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the Asian Human Rights Commission website that first alerted me to the fact that five women had been buried alive as part of an honour killing in the tribal area of Baluchistan \u2013 an atrocity beyond imagination. Within days this tragedy had been reported in the Pakistan national press and almost immediately Baluchistan's Senator Yasmeen Shah took the case to the senate.The treatment of these women shocked and angered me \u2013 and countless others throughout Pakistan. On top of that, when I heard that Senator Israrullah Zehri and Senator Jan Mohammad Jamali stood up in the senate and attempted to justify the murders as \"Baluch tradition\" I was in despair. They said that we should not even be discussing Baluch traditions in the senate. Fortunately, they represent a minority mindset. The case has caused a national uproar. When I realised that the senate was unlikely to take the murders seriously I started to organise. (I've long been involved in human rights issues, writing articles and organising public protests.) I sent emails to various NGOs, human rights activists and also to the Women's Action Forum, calling on them to demonstrate in front of the senate in Islamabad. Although on such short notice I had expected around 100 protesters to come, on the day we had more than three times that number.  I am now working closely with Yasmeen Shah, whom I met for the first time at our demonstration. At our request she is now trying to get someone who believes in human rights to join the special committee that has been set up to investigate this crime. There needs to be an independent voice or the entire process will be biased toward Baluch politics. These atrocities represent the structural violence against women in Pakistan. They certainly made me realise that enormous steps have to be taken in the judicial and tribal systems, which thrive on gender hierarchies and inequalities. The people who are guardians of these systems take any challenge \u2013 particularly from women \u2013 as a threat. I feel that the desire to control women's lives and their sexuality is far greater in areas where feudal and tribal systems are prevalent. For example, you will not find the same oppression of women in Islamabad, Karachi or Lahore. But where there is a strong tribal or feudal hold you see that women's sexuality is strictly controlled by the family \u2013 and particularly the male members of the family. I believe that it's high time we introduce land reforms to do away with the tribal and chiefdom systems. We also need to do away with parallel judicial systems such as jirga and punchyat. It's the elected representatives of these systems who have huge stakes in maintaining the gender status quo, and there is very little hope for us that they will do anything to protect women. It is not going to be an easy fight.I believe that the men involved in these honour killings should be arrested and put through the due process of law, but this is not happening in Pakistan. Sadly, the people who inflict this violence on women are getting away with it because they are influential and can manipulate the legal system to escape punishment. And they do. But I believe we should not let this case go. We have to make sure that the perpetrators are punished. We should also ask for long-term legal changes to be made so that women in this country can expect some protection from the law. Although I was shocked and very angry to hear about the murder of these five Baluch women, it's not the first time that this sort of thing has happened. There have been other cases, equally barbaric, that didn't receive such attention. A few months ago, for instance, there was an incident in southern Punjab \u2013 a village woman was accused of having an illegitimate relationship and was stoned to death. Gender inequality is endemic throughout Pakistan, but its manifestation differs between urban and rural areas, and also between social classes. At a professional level, I don't face severe discrimination, but as the head of the Department of Gender Studies at Quaid-e-Azam University in Islamabad, I feel that the university administration, which is run mostly by men, has been unsupportive of my department and at one point even tried to kill it off. Various vice-chancellors along the way have said that gender studies is not a discipline but a mere western clich\u00e9 with no relevance to Pakistan. Other bias I have experienced comes as the result of being vocal about gender issues. When members of the militant group Jamai Hafsa took over the children's library at the Red Mosque in Islamabad and demanded the promulgation of Sharia law, I protested against them. I've been very active in the repeal of the Islamic Hudood legislation that requires, for example, a woman who has been raped to procure four male Muslim witnesses to support her case. Without four male Muslim witnesses, she could find herself accused of adultery and stoned to death. There are fatwas issued against me saying that I should be killed as I am not a Muslim woman. I feel a general sense of insecurity because the people I'm up against are very militant. I feel that at any time they can walk into my home and slit my throat. It is the kind of risk that I have to live with. If I let fear in it will incapacitate me. I have to remain brave, because there are so many risks. As an activist and a professional, I keep seeing different manifestations of this terrible gender bias \u2013 of which the latest is the unfathomable brutality of these Baluchistan honour killings.\u2022 Dr Farzana Bari was interviewed by Saundra Satterlee.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "Religion", "Human rights"], "title": "Deadly traditions in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-09-01T05:29:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani journalist Abdul Aziz has been killed during an attack by Pakistan forces on a Taliban hideout in the area of Swat. He was abducted two days earlier by a Taliban group. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Kidnapped Pakistan journalist killed"},{"date": "2008-09-22T10:15:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistanis have to shed any illusions about the militants who blew up the Marriot hotel, the News, a national daily newspaper, declares in a tough editorial.It is senseless to point fingers elsewhere. We must wake up to the fact that these people come from amongst us; they target venues within the country and they kill their own countrymen. It is time we accepted this war is our own.The News goes on to argue that the tendency to give the militants the benefit of the doubt has allowed them to flourish and says the government must lose no time in building a consensus to take on the terrorists.The opinions we still hear everywhere, in roadside cafes, in offices - and among the country's establishment - that the militants who have entrenched themselves in northern areas are 'good' people, that force should not be used against them - is one reason why we today face such high levels of peril.Anatol Lieven, writing in the Times, discusses the excuses ordinary Pakistanis make for the terrorists. After dozens of workers were killed at a munitions complex last month, many Pakistanis told him the attack was justified because it was a military target and the military were taking American money to kill their own people.The latest attack, he says, may lead to a stronger determination for the civilian government and the military to work together to defeat extremists. It may remind the west that Pakistan is not just an aspect of its campaign in Afghanistan but a much more important country. \"It needs all the help we can give,\" he concludes.Taking up this theme of aid, the Independent says it may be too much to expect that a large amount of foreign aid can help, but in the absence of any other solution it remains the only hope.In the same paper, Yasmin Alibhai-Brown  throws up her hands in despair at the willingness of Muslims to inflict death and suffering on fellow Muslims.I, a Muslim who fights daily against the unjust treatment of Muslims in the west, have to face the blinding truth that although we have serious external enemies, more Muslims are hurt, wounded, killed and denied by other Muslims who feel themselves to be virtuous.Dawn, another Pakistani paper, bemoans the lack of leadership as the country lurches deeper into crisis.What is truly distressing about Pakistan is the utter lack of any visible direction. Since August 6, Pakistan has been fighting militants in Bajaur. Yet virtually no one in the country is aware of who we are fighting and why. Worse yet, it's not clear who is responsible for the operation: the political government, the military or both? Is it any surprise that the people are confused and split when they do not know who we are fighting, why we are fighting and even who 'we' is?", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan sheds illusions"},{"date": "2008-09-05T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the Asian Human Rights Commission website that first alerted me to the fact that five women had been buried alive as part of an honour killing in the tribal area of Baluchistan \u2013 an atrocity beyond imagination. Within days this tragedy had been reported in the Pakistan national press and almost immediately Baluchistan's Senator Yasmeen Shah took the case to the senate.The treatment of these women shocked and angered me \u2013 and countless others throughout Pakistan. On top of that, when I heard that Senator Israrullah Zehri and Senator Jan Mohammad Jamali stood up in the senate and attempted to justify the murders as \"Baluch tradition\" I was in despair. They said that we should not even be discussing Baluch traditions in the senate. Fortunately, they represent a minority mindset. The case has caused a national uproar. When I realised that the senate was unlikely to take the murders seriously I started to organise. (I've long been involved in human rights issues, writing articles and organising public protests.) I sent emails to various NGOs, human rights activists and also to the Women's Action Forum, calling on them to demonstrate in front of the senate in Islamabad. Although on such short notice I had expected around 100 protesters to come, on the day we had more than three times that number.  I am now working closely with Yasmeen Shah, whom I met for the first time at our demonstration. At our request she is now trying to get someone who believes in human rights to join the special committee that has been set up to investigate this crime. There needs to be an independent voice or the entire process will be biased toward Baluch politics. These atrocities represent the structural violence against women in Pakistan. They certainly made me realise that enormous steps have to be taken in the judicial and tribal systems, which thrive on gender hierarchies and inequalities. The people who are guardians of these systems take any challenge \u2013 particularly from women \u2013 as a threat. I feel that the desire to control women's lives and their sexuality is far greater in areas where feudal and tribal systems are prevalent. For example, you will not find the same oppression of women in Islamabad, Karachi or Lahore. But where there is a strong tribal or feudal hold you see that women's sexuality is strictly controlled by the family \u2013 and particularly the male members of the family. I believe that it's high time we introduce land reforms to do away with the tribal and chiefdom systems. We also need to do away with parallel judicial systems such as jirga and punchyat. It's the elected representatives of these systems who have huge stakes in maintaining the gender status quo, and there is very little hope for us that they will do anything to protect women. It is not going to be an easy fight.I believe that the men involved in these honour killings should be arrested and put through the due process of law, but this is not happening in Pakistan. Sadly, the people who inflict this violence on women are getting away with it because they are influential and can manipulate the legal system to escape punishment. And they do. But I believe we should not let this case go. We have to make sure that the perpetrators are punished. We should also ask for long-term legal changes to be made so that women in this country can expect some protection from the law. Although I was shocked and very angry to hear about the murder of these five Baluch women, it's not the first time that this sort of thing has happened. There have been other cases, equally barbaric, that didn't receive such attention. A few months ago, for instance, there was an incident in southern Punjab \u2013 a village woman was accused of having an illegitimate relationship and was stoned to death. Gender inequality is endemic throughout Pakistan, but its manifestation differs between urban and rural areas, and also between social classes. At a professional level, I don't face severe discrimination, but as the head of the Department of Gender Studies at Quaid-e-Azam University in Islamabad, I feel that the university administration, which is run mostly by men, has been unsupportive of my department and at one point even tried to kill it off. Various vice-chancellors along the way have said that gender studies is not a discipline but a mere western clich\u00e9 with no relevance to Pakistan. Other bias I have experienced comes as the result of being vocal about gender issues. When members of the militant group Jamai Hafsa took over the children's library at the Red Mosque in Islamabad and demanded the promulgation of Sharia law, I protested against them. I've been very active in the repeal of the Islamic Hudood legislation that requires, for example, a woman who has been raped to procure four male Muslim witnesses to support her case. Without four male Muslim witnesses, she could find herself accused of adultery and stoned to death. There are fatwas issued against me saying that I should be killed as I am not a Muslim woman. I feel a general sense of insecurity because the people I'm up against are very militant. I feel that at any time they can walk into my home and slit my throat. It is the kind of risk that I have to live with. If I let fear in it will incapacitate me. I have to remain brave, because there are so many risks. As an activist and a professional, I keep seeing different manifestations of this terrible gender bias \u2013 of which the latest is the unfathomable brutality of these Baluchistan honour killings.\u2022 Dr Farzana Bari was interviewed by Saundra Satterlee.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "Religion", "Human rights"], "title": "Deadly traditions in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-09-01T05:29:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani journalist Abdul Aziz has been killed during an attack by Pakistan forces on a Taliban hideout in the area of Swat. He was abducted two days earlier by a Taliban group. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Kidnapped Pakistan journalist killed"},{"date": "2008-08-29T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Four Baloch prisoners have been burned alive in hot coal tar by the Pakistan army during military operations in annexed and occupied Balochistan, according to the Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC).Last week the AHRC received confirmation that Pakistani soldiers arrested four people on April 5 2008, in the Dera Bugti district of Balochistan, and subjected them to torture. They were asked to identify local supporters of the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA). After failing to get any names from them, the victims were immersed in scolding hot coal tar. Three of the men were literally boiled and burned to death. A fourth died later from his injuries. Villagers in the area also claim the Pakistan army used a form of chemical gas against them and that some of the gassed survivors were later shot. Their bodies have not been handed over to relatives for burial.These and many other crimes against humanity are still happening in Balochistan, despite the resignation of the dictator President, Pervez Musharraf, and despite Pakistan's ostensible transition to democratic government.During July and August, over 100 Baloch persons were killed, 250 disappeared and more than 20,000 were displaced. They are victims of intensified military operations by the Pakistan army, which has occupied Balochistan since invading in 1948 and forcibly incorporating it into Pakistan. Cobra attack helicopters that were  provided (pdf) by the US to help defeat the Taliban and al-Qaida are instead being used to crush the Baloch people. On May 1 this year, the new democratically elected prime minister of Pakistan, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, publicly apologised for the persecution of the Baloch people and pledged to halt military assaults in Balochistan:It has been decided that no army action will be carried out in the province (of Balochistan) until a strategy is formulated in consultation with representatives of the provincial government to deal with the issue of law and order in the province.Contradicting these assurances, Pakistan's war of aggression seems to be intensifying. The Daily Jang newspaper reported on August 21 that the armed forces of Pakistan had deployed more troops in the region, killing innocent civilians in repeated aerial bombardments. Pakistan's minister of the interior visited the area on August 20 and announced that military operations would continue if Baloch nationalists and freedom fighters continued to be supported and protected by the people. The same newspaper also reported on August 24, that military operations have been expanded to new areas in Balochistan. Over the last few years of Pakistani attacks on Balochistan, the AHRC reports that about 3,000 people have died, around 200,000 have been displaced, and more than 4,000 people have been arrested by the police, army and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).The AHRC is organising an urgent action appeal to the government of Pakistan, calling on it to investigate the killing of civilians and to halt military operations in Balochistan. Click here to send an automated letter to key Pakistani leaders. Or you can email your own, personalised appeal, direct to the Pakistani prime minister, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, at webmaster@infopak.gov.pk", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Peter Tatchell: Pakistan continues to abuse human rights in Balochistan"},{"date": "2008-09-22T10:15:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistanis have to shed any illusions about the militants who blew up the Marriot hotel, the News, a national daily newspaper, declares in a tough editorial.It is senseless to point fingers elsewhere. We must wake up to the fact that these people come from amongst us; they target venues within the country and they kill their own countrymen. It is time we accepted this war is our own.The News goes on to argue that the tendency to give the militants the benefit of the doubt has allowed them to flourish and says the government must lose no time in building a consensus to take on the terrorists.The opinions we still hear everywhere, in roadside cafes, in offices - and among the country's establishment - that the militants who have entrenched themselves in northern areas are 'good' people, that force should not be used against them - is one reason why we today face such high levels of peril.Anatol Lieven, writing in the Times, discusses the excuses ordinary Pakistanis make for the terrorists. After dozens of workers were killed at a munitions complex last month, many Pakistanis told him the attack was justified because it was a military target and the military were taking American money to kill their own people.The latest attack, he says, may lead to a stronger determination for the civilian government and the military to work together to defeat extremists. It may remind the west that Pakistan is not just an aspect of its campaign in Afghanistan but a much more important country. \"It needs all the help we can give,\" he concludes.Taking up this theme of aid, the Independent says it may be too much to expect that a large amount of foreign aid can help, but in the absence of any other solution it remains the only hope.In the same paper, Yasmin Alibhai-Brown  throws up her hands in despair at the willingness of Muslims to inflict death and suffering on fellow Muslims.I, a Muslim who fights daily against the unjust treatment of Muslims in the west, have to face the blinding truth that although we have serious external enemies, more Muslims are hurt, wounded, killed and denied by other Muslims who feel themselves to be virtuous.Dawn, another Pakistani paper, bemoans the lack of leadership as the country lurches deeper into crisis.What is truly distressing about Pakistan is the utter lack of any visible direction. Since August 6, Pakistan has been fighting militants in Bajaur. Yet virtually no one in the country is aware of who we are fighting and why. Worse yet, it's not clear who is responsible for the operation: the political government, the military or both? Is it any surprise that the people are confused and split when they do not know who we are fighting, why we are fighting and even who 'we' is?", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan sheds illusions"},{"date": "2008-09-05T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the Asian Human Rights Commission website that first alerted me to the fact that five women had been buried alive as part of an honour killing in the tribal area of Baluchistan \u2013 an atrocity beyond imagination. Within days this tragedy had been reported in the Pakistan national press and almost immediately Baluchistan's Senator Yasmeen Shah took the case to the senate.The treatment of these women shocked and angered me \u2013 and countless others throughout Pakistan. On top of that, when I heard that Senator Israrullah Zehri and Senator Jan Mohammad Jamali stood up in the senate and attempted to justify the murders as \"Baluch tradition\" I was in despair. They said that we should not even be discussing Baluch traditions in the senate. Fortunately, they represent a minority mindset. The case has caused a national uproar. When I realised that the senate was unlikely to take the murders seriously I started to organise. (I've long been involved in human rights issues, writing articles and organising public protests.) I sent emails to various NGOs, human rights activists and also to the Women's Action Forum, calling on them to demonstrate in front of the senate in Islamabad. Although on such short notice I had expected around 100 protesters to come, on the day we had more than three times that number.  I am now working closely with Yasmeen Shah, whom I met for the first time at our demonstration. At our request she is now trying to get someone who believes in human rights to join the special committee that has been set up to investigate this crime. There needs to be an independent voice or the entire process will be biased toward Baluch politics. These atrocities represent the structural violence against women in Pakistan. They certainly made me realise that enormous steps have to be taken in the judicial and tribal systems, which thrive on gender hierarchies and inequalities. The people who are guardians of these systems take any challenge \u2013 particularly from women \u2013 as a threat. I feel that the desire to control women's lives and their sexuality is far greater in areas where feudal and tribal systems are prevalent. For example, you will not find the same oppression of women in Islamabad, Karachi or Lahore. But where there is a strong tribal or feudal hold you see that women's sexuality is strictly controlled by the family \u2013 and particularly the male members of the family. I believe that it's high time we introduce land reforms to do away with the tribal and chiefdom systems. We also need to do away with parallel judicial systems such as jirga and punchyat. It's the elected representatives of these systems who have huge stakes in maintaining the gender status quo, and there is very little hope for us that they will do anything to protect women. It is not going to be an easy fight.I believe that the men involved in these honour killings should be arrested and put through the due process of law, but this is not happening in Pakistan. Sadly, the people who inflict this violence on women are getting away with it because they are influential and can manipulate the legal system to escape punishment. And they do. But I believe we should not let this case go. We have to make sure that the perpetrators are punished. We should also ask for long-term legal changes to be made so that women in this country can expect some protection from the law. Although I was shocked and very angry to hear about the murder of these five Baluch women, it's not the first time that this sort of thing has happened. There have been other cases, equally barbaric, that didn't receive such attention. A few months ago, for instance, there was an incident in southern Punjab \u2013 a village woman was accused of having an illegitimate relationship and was stoned to death. Gender inequality is endemic throughout Pakistan, but its manifestation differs between urban and rural areas, and also between social classes. At a professional level, I don't face severe discrimination, but as the head of the Department of Gender Studies at Quaid-e-Azam University in Islamabad, I feel that the university administration, which is run mostly by men, has been unsupportive of my department and at one point even tried to kill it off. Various vice-chancellors along the way have said that gender studies is not a discipline but a mere western clich\u00e9 with no relevance to Pakistan. Other bias I have experienced comes as the result of being vocal about gender issues. When members of the militant group Jamai Hafsa took over the children's library at the Red Mosque in Islamabad and demanded the promulgation of Sharia law, I protested against them. I've been very active in the repeal of the Islamic Hudood legislation that requires, for example, a woman who has been raped to procure four male Muslim witnesses to support her case. Without four male Muslim witnesses, she could find herself accused of adultery and stoned to death. There are fatwas issued against me saying that I should be killed as I am not a Muslim woman. I feel a general sense of insecurity because the people I'm up against are very militant. I feel that at any time they can walk into my home and slit my throat. It is the kind of risk that I have to live with. If I let fear in it will incapacitate me. I have to remain brave, because there are so many risks. As an activist and a professional, I keep seeing different manifestations of this terrible gender bias \u2013 of which the latest is the unfathomable brutality of these Baluchistan honour killings.\u2022 Dr Farzana Bari was interviewed by Saundra Satterlee.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "Religion", "Human rights"], "title": "Deadly traditions in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-09-01T05:29:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani journalist Abdul Aziz has been killed during an attack by Pakistan forces on a Taliban hideout in the area of Swat. He was abducted two days earlier by a Taliban group. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Kidnapped Pakistan journalist killed"},{"date": "2008-08-29T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Four Baloch prisoners have been burned alive in hot coal tar by the Pakistan army during military operations in annexed and occupied Balochistan, according to the Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC).Last week the AHRC received confirmation that Pakistani soldiers arrested four people on April 5 2008, in the Dera Bugti district of Balochistan, and subjected them to torture. They were asked to identify local supporters of the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA). After failing to get any names from them, the victims were immersed in scolding hot coal tar. Three of the men were literally boiled and burned to death. A fourth died later from his injuries. Villagers in the area also claim the Pakistan army used a form of chemical gas against them and that some of the gassed survivors were later shot. Their bodies have not been handed over to relatives for burial.These and many other crimes against humanity are still happening in Balochistan, despite the resignation of the dictator President, Pervez Musharraf, and despite Pakistan's ostensible transition to democratic government.During July and August, over 100 Baloch persons were killed, 250 disappeared and more than 20,000 were displaced. They are victims of intensified military operations by the Pakistan army, which has occupied Balochistan since invading in 1948 and forcibly incorporating it into Pakistan. Cobra attack helicopters that were  provided (pdf) by the US to help defeat the Taliban and al-Qaida are instead being used to crush the Baloch people. On May 1 this year, the new democratically elected prime minister of Pakistan, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, publicly apologised for the persecution of the Baloch people and pledged to halt military assaults in Balochistan:It has been decided that no army action will be carried out in the province (of Balochistan) until a strategy is formulated in consultation with representatives of the provincial government to deal with the issue of law and order in the province.Contradicting these assurances, Pakistan's war of aggression seems to be intensifying. The Daily Jang newspaper reported on August 21 that the armed forces of Pakistan had deployed more troops in the region, killing innocent civilians in repeated aerial bombardments. Pakistan's minister of the interior visited the area on August 20 and announced that military operations would continue if Baloch nationalists and freedom fighters continued to be supported and protected by the people. The same newspaper also reported on August 24, that military operations have been expanded to new areas in Balochistan. Over the last few years of Pakistani attacks on Balochistan, the AHRC reports that about 3,000 people have died, around 200,000 have been displaced, and more than 4,000 people have been arrested by the police, army and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).The AHRC is organising an urgent action appeal to the government of Pakistan, calling on it to investigate the killing of civilians and to halt military operations in Balochistan. Click here to send an automated letter to key Pakistani leaders. Or you can email your own, personalised appeal, direct to the Pakistani prime minister, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, at webmaster@infopak.gov.pk", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Peter Tatchell: Pakistan continues to abuse human rights in Balochistan"},{"date": "2008-08-18T09:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "After indicating they were willing to support Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf's exit, US officials are now being forced to contemplate something which they had previously viewed as unthinkable: a Pakistan without their trusted general at its helm. Even the Pakistani military signaled they were no longer willing to support Musharraf, leaving the embattled leader with very few friends.The question everyone was asking was: how long will he last? Tariq Ali, writing on Comment is free last week, gave Musharraf only days in office. Now we know: the General has resigned, rather than face the threat of an unprecedented impeachment from Pakistan's parliament. This leaves the United States and its western allies like Britain in a difficult position. The US \u2013 as it has done so many times \u2013 put all its eggs in one basket in the military ruler Musharraf, and perceptions of the US have plummeted along with Musharraf's career. An overwhelming percentage of Pakistanis are opposed to Musharraf's war against militants in Pakistan's tribal areas, seeing it as an unnecessary American intervention that has made Pakistan less secure. The US must understand that in voting to impeach Musharraf, Pakistanis wanted to vote against the US and the way it is conducting its \"war on terror\" in Pakistan. Prominent Pakistani government figures, including PML chairman Nawaz Sharif, PPP co-chairman Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani, have pushed for a new approach to Pakistan's tribal areas which focuses more on dialogue instead of Musharraf's bombardments which radicalised the tribes and led to a perception that their religion, culture, and ethnicity were under attack. The departure of Musharraf is a strong indication that the US needs to change course quickly in its \"war on terror\" in the region, a change demanded by Pakistan's population. Pakistan is America's major non-Nato ally, but its population is drifting further and further from the US. If the US does not shift to a more culturally nuanced, efficient policy in the tribal areas that balances the threat of force with efforts to reach out to the tribes and understand their position, it will be in danger of continuing to promote Musharraf, even now that he has gone, by perpetuating the discredited policies that characterised his rule. This will have a disastrous effect on US-Pakistan relations and will also serve to swing the pendulum further towards religious conservatives who preach that Islam is under attack from the US.In the face of Musharraf's exit, I am left thinking of what might have been. I had the opportunity to spend an hour with Musharraf in Rawalpindi as a part of a research trip I took around the Muslim world for the book Journey into Islam: The Crisis of Globalization by Akbar Ahmed (Brookings Press: 2007). The Musharraf I met was warm, engaged, and possessed a genuine sense of humour. He spoke passionately about Pakistan and also Islam, especially the moving experience he had taking the haj to Saudi Arabia. He spoke of the need to balance Islamic religion and culture with the opportunities offered by the west, and said that it was possible to be both Muslim and modern without being western. He also, curiously, spoke of his admiration for Napoleon Bonaparte in a discussion about history; I think he may have seen himself as a patriotic military leader who sought to implement religious freedom and other reforms through the military. Musharraf failed in this dream, partly because of the trappings of absolute power and partly because myopic directions from Washington to attack terrorists diverted any education funds there might have been toward weaponry to reign down upon the restive tribes. It is interesting because, Musharraf's dream for Pakistan is exactly the vision of Pakistan's founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who formed a modern, democratic Muslim state on the basis of human rights, women's rights, and minority rights in 1947. It is this vision that both the US and the Pakistani government must return to as the country moves into the post-Musharraf era. This means strengthening the judiciary and rule of law while also reinstating Pakistan's civil service \u2013 the organisation Jinnah once referred to as the \"steel structure\" of the state \u2013 which Musharraf dismantled in favor of the military. The post Musharraf-era is in the hands of the people of Pakistan. The US can help by providing its ally with strong leadership, guidance, and resources to strengthen a fragile democracy. But if America reverts to the same Musharraf-era policies and the law and order situation deteriorates further, Pakistan could soon be saluting a new military dictator.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Frankie Martin: Pakistan, post-Musharraf"},{"date": "2008-09-22T10:15:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistanis have to shed any illusions about the militants who blew up the Marriot hotel, the News, a national daily newspaper, declares in a tough editorial.It is senseless to point fingers elsewhere. We must wake up to the fact that these people come from amongst us; they target venues within the country and they kill their own countrymen. It is time we accepted this war is our own.The News goes on to argue that the tendency to give the militants the benefit of the doubt has allowed them to flourish and says the government must lose no time in building a consensus to take on the terrorists.The opinions we still hear everywhere, in roadside cafes, in offices - and among the country's establishment - that the militants who have entrenched themselves in northern areas are 'good' people, that force should not be used against them - is one reason why we today face such high levels of peril.Anatol Lieven, writing in the Times, discusses the excuses ordinary Pakistanis make for the terrorists. After dozens of workers were killed at a munitions complex last month, many Pakistanis told him the attack was justified because it was a military target and the military were taking American money to kill their own people.The latest attack, he says, may lead to a stronger determination for the civilian government and the military to work together to defeat extremists. It may remind the west that Pakistan is not just an aspect of its campaign in Afghanistan but a much more important country. \"It needs all the help we can give,\" he concludes.Taking up this theme of aid, the Independent says it may be too much to expect that a large amount of foreign aid can help, but in the absence of any other solution it remains the only hope.In the same paper, Yasmin Alibhai-Brown  throws up her hands in despair at the willingness of Muslims to inflict death and suffering on fellow Muslims.I, a Muslim who fights daily against the unjust treatment of Muslims in the west, have to face the blinding truth that although we have serious external enemies, more Muslims are hurt, wounded, killed and denied by other Muslims who feel themselves to be virtuous.Dawn, another Pakistani paper, bemoans the lack of leadership as the country lurches deeper into crisis.What is truly distressing about Pakistan is the utter lack of any visible direction. Since August 6, Pakistan has been fighting militants in Bajaur. Yet virtually no one in the country is aware of who we are fighting and why. Worse yet, it's not clear who is responsible for the operation: the political government, the military or both? Is it any surprise that the people are confused and split when they do not know who we are fighting, why we are fighting and even who 'we' is?", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan sheds illusions"},{"date": "2008-09-05T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the Asian Human Rights Commission website that first alerted me to the fact that five women had been buried alive as part of an honour killing in the tribal area of Baluchistan \u2013 an atrocity beyond imagination. Within days this tragedy had been reported in the Pakistan national press and almost immediately Baluchistan's Senator Yasmeen Shah took the case to the senate.The treatment of these women shocked and angered me \u2013 and countless others throughout Pakistan. On top of that, when I heard that Senator Israrullah Zehri and Senator Jan Mohammad Jamali stood up in the senate and attempted to justify the murders as \"Baluch tradition\" I was in despair. They said that we should not even be discussing Baluch traditions in the senate. Fortunately, they represent a minority mindset. The case has caused a national uproar. When I realised that the senate was unlikely to take the murders seriously I started to organise. (I've long been involved in human rights issues, writing articles and organising public protests.) I sent emails to various NGOs, human rights activists and also to the Women's Action Forum, calling on them to demonstrate in front of the senate in Islamabad. Although on such short notice I had expected around 100 protesters to come, on the day we had more than three times that number.  I am now working closely with Yasmeen Shah, whom I met for the first time at our demonstration. At our request she is now trying to get someone who believes in human rights to join the special committee that has been set up to investigate this crime. There needs to be an independent voice or the entire process will be biased toward Baluch politics. These atrocities represent the structural violence against women in Pakistan. They certainly made me realise that enormous steps have to be taken in the judicial and tribal systems, which thrive on gender hierarchies and inequalities. The people who are guardians of these systems take any challenge \u2013 particularly from women \u2013 as a threat. I feel that the desire to control women's lives and their sexuality is far greater in areas where feudal and tribal systems are prevalent. For example, you will not find the same oppression of women in Islamabad, Karachi or Lahore. But where there is a strong tribal or feudal hold you see that women's sexuality is strictly controlled by the family \u2013 and particularly the male members of the family. I believe that it's high time we introduce land reforms to do away with the tribal and chiefdom systems. We also need to do away with parallel judicial systems such as jirga and punchyat. It's the elected representatives of these systems who have huge stakes in maintaining the gender status quo, and there is very little hope for us that they will do anything to protect women. It is not going to be an easy fight.I believe that the men involved in these honour killings should be arrested and put through the due process of law, but this is not happening in Pakistan. Sadly, the people who inflict this violence on women are getting away with it because they are influential and can manipulate the legal system to escape punishment. And they do. But I believe we should not let this case go. We have to make sure that the perpetrators are punished. We should also ask for long-term legal changes to be made so that women in this country can expect some protection from the law. Although I was shocked and very angry to hear about the murder of these five Baluch women, it's not the first time that this sort of thing has happened. There have been other cases, equally barbaric, that didn't receive such attention. A few months ago, for instance, there was an incident in southern Punjab \u2013 a village woman was accused of having an illegitimate relationship and was stoned to death. Gender inequality is endemic throughout Pakistan, but its manifestation differs between urban and rural areas, and also between social classes. At a professional level, I don't face severe discrimination, but as the head of the Department of Gender Studies at Quaid-e-Azam University in Islamabad, I feel that the university administration, which is run mostly by men, has been unsupportive of my department and at one point even tried to kill it off. Various vice-chancellors along the way have said that gender studies is not a discipline but a mere western clich\u00e9 with no relevance to Pakistan. Other bias I have experienced comes as the result of being vocal about gender issues. When members of the militant group Jamai Hafsa took over the children's library at the Red Mosque in Islamabad and demanded the promulgation of Sharia law, I protested against them. I've been very active in the repeal of the Islamic Hudood legislation that requires, for example, a woman who has been raped to procure four male Muslim witnesses to support her case. Without four male Muslim witnesses, she could find herself accused of adultery and stoned to death. There are fatwas issued against me saying that I should be killed as I am not a Muslim woman. I feel a general sense of insecurity because the people I'm up against are very militant. I feel that at any time they can walk into my home and slit my throat. It is the kind of risk that I have to live with. If I let fear in it will incapacitate me. I have to remain brave, because there are so many risks. As an activist and a professional, I keep seeing different manifestations of this terrible gender bias \u2013 of which the latest is the unfathomable brutality of these Baluchistan honour killings.\u2022 Dr Farzana Bari was interviewed by Saundra Satterlee.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "Religion", "Human rights"], "title": "Deadly traditions in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-09-01T05:29:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani journalist Abdul Aziz has been killed during an attack by Pakistan forces on a Taliban hideout in the area of Swat. He was abducted two days earlier by a Taliban group. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Kidnapped Pakistan journalist killed"},{"date": "2008-08-29T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Four Baloch prisoners have been burned alive in hot coal tar by the Pakistan army during military operations in annexed and occupied Balochistan, according to the Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC).Last week the AHRC received confirmation that Pakistani soldiers arrested four people on April 5 2008, in the Dera Bugti district of Balochistan, and subjected them to torture. They were asked to identify local supporters of the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA). After failing to get any names from them, the victims were immersed in scolding hot coal tar. Three of the men were literally boiled and burned to death. A fourth died later from his injuries. Villagers in the area also claim the Pakistan army used a form of chemical gas against them and that some of the gassed survivors were later shot. Their bodies have not been handed over to relatives for burial.These and many other crimes against humanity are still happening in Balochistan, despite the resignation of the dictator President, Pervez Musharraf, and despite Pakistan's ostensible transition to democratic government.During July and August, over 100 Baloch persons were killed, 250 disappeared and more than 20,000 were displaced. They are victims of intensified military operations by the Pakistan army, which has occupied Balochistan since invading in 1948 and forcibly incorporating it into Pakistan. Cobra attack helicopters that were  provided (pdf) by the US to help defeat the Taliban and al-Qaida are instead being used to crush the Baloch people. On May 1 this year, the new democratically elected prime minister of Pakistan, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, publicly apologised for the persecution of the Baloch people and pledged to halt military assaults in Balochistan:It has been decided that no army action will be carried out in the province (of Balochistan) until a strategy is formulated in consultation with representatives of the provincial government to deal with the issue of law and order in the province.Contradicting these assurances, Pakistan's war of aggression seems to be intensifying. The Daily Jang newspaper reported on August 21 that the armed forces of Pakistan had deployed more troops in the region, killing innocent civilians in repeated aerial bombardments. Pakistan's minister of the interior visited the area on August 20 and announced that military operations would continue if Baloch nationalists and freedom fighters continued to be supported and protected by the people. The same newspaper also reported on August 24, that military operations have been expanded to new areas in Balochistan. Over the last few years of Pakistani attacks on Balochistan, the AHRC reports that about 3,000 people have died, around 200,000 have been displaced, and more than 4,000 people have been arrested by the police, army and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).The AHRC is organising an urgent action appeal to the government of Pakistan, calling on it to investigate the killing of civilians and to halt military operations in Balochistan. Click here to send an automated letter to key Pakistani leaders. Or you can email your own, personalised appeal, direct to the Pakistani prime minister, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, at webmaster@infopak.gov.pk", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Peter Tatchell: Pakistan continues to abuse human rights in Balochistan"},{"date": "2008-08-18T09:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "After indicating they were willing to support Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf's exit, US officials are now being forced to contemplate something which they had previously viewed as unthinkable: a Pakistan without their trusted general at its helm. Even the Pakistani military signaled they were no longer willing to support Musharraf, leaving the embattled leader with very few friends.The question everyone was asking was: how long will he last? Tariq Ali, writing on Comment is free last week, gave Musharraf only days in office. Now we know: the General has resigned, rather than face the threat of an unprecedented impeachment from Pakistan's parliament. This leaves the United States and its western allies like Britain in a difficult position. The US \u2013 as it has done so many times \u2013 put all its eggs in one basket in the military ruler Musharraf, and perceptions of the US have plummeted along with Musharraf's career. An overwhelming percentage of Pakistanis are opposed to Musharraf's war against militants in Pakistan's tribal areas, seeing it as an unnecessary American intervention that has made Pakistan less secure. The US must understand that in voting to impeach Musharraf, Pakistanis wanted to vote against the US and the way it is conducting its \"war on terror\" in Pakistan. Prominent Pakistani government figures, including PML chairman Nawaz Sharif, PPP co-chairman Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani, have pushed for a new approach to Pakistan's tribal areas which focuses more on dialogue instead of Musharraf's bombardments which radicalised the tribes and led to a perception that their religion, culture, and ethnicity were under attack. The departure of Musharraf is a strong indication that the US needs to change course quickly in its \"war on terror\" in the region, a change demanded by Pakistan's population. Pakistan is America's major non-Nato ally, but its population is drifting further and further from the US. If the US does not shift to a more culturally nuanced, efficient policy in the tribal areas that balances the threat of force with efforts to reach out to the tribes and understand their position, it will be in danger of continuing to promote Musharraf, even now that he has gone, by perpetuating the discredited policies that characterised his rule. This will have a disastrous effect on US-Pakistan relations and will also serve to swing the pendulum further towards religious conservatives who preach that Islam is under attack from the US.In the face of Musharraf's exit, I am left thinking of what might have been. I had the opportunity to spend an hour with Musharraf in Rawalpindi as a part of a research trip I took around the Muslim world for the book Journey into Islam: The Crisis of Globalization by Akbar Ahmed (Brookings Press: 2007). The Musharraf I met was warm, engaged, and possessed a genuine sense of humour. He spoke passionately about Pakistan and also Islam, especially the moving experience he had taking the haj to Saudi Arabia. He spoke of the need to balance Islamic religion and culture with the opportunities offered by the west, and said that it was possible to be both Muslim and modern without being western. He also, curiously, spoke of his admiration for Napoleon Bonaparte in a discussion about history; I think he may have seen himself as a patriotic military leader who sought to implement religious freedom and other reforms through the military. Musharraf failed in this dream, partly because of the trappings of absolute power and partly because myopic directions from Washington to attack terrorists diverted any education funds there might have been toward weaponry to reign down upon the restive tribes. It is interesting because, Musharraf's dream for Pakistan is exactly the vision of Pakistan's founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who formed a modern, democratic Muslim state on the basis of human rights, women's rights, and minority rights in 1947. It is this vision that both the US and the Pakistani government must return to as the country moves into the post-Musharraf era. This means strengthening the judiciary and rule of law while also reinstating Pakistan's civil service \u2013 the organisation Jinnah once referred to as the \"steel structure\" of the state \u2013 which Musharraf dismantled in favor of the military. The post Musharraf-era is in the hands of the people of Pakistan. The US can help by providing its ally with strong leadership, guidance, and resources to strengthen a fragile democracy. But if America reverts to the same Musharraf-era policies and the law and order situation deteriorates further, Pakistan could soon be saluting a new military dictator.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Frankie Martin: Pakistan, post-Musharraf"},{"date": "2008-09-11T11:33:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "When George Bush announced the withdrawal of 8,000 combat troops from Iraq this week, he devoted a considerable amount of his speech to Afghanistan and Pakistan, where Asif Ali Zardari has just succeeded a disgraced Pervez Musharraf as president.Specifically, Bush said the US had to help Pakistan defeat Taliban and al-Qaida fighters hiding in its remote border regions with Afghanistan, where, the US president reminded us, the global war on terror started with the attacks on the World Trade Centre.\"Defeating these terrorist and extremists is also Pakistan's responsibility - because every nation has an obligation to govern its own territory and make certain that it does not become a safe haven for terror. America and our Nato allies will continue helping Pakistan in its efforts to defeat the extremists.\"Bush's remarks take on added significance in light of an article in today's New York Times, which reports that he secretly approved orders in July allowing US special forces to make ground assaults inside Pakistan without the prior approval of the Pakistani government.For some time now, the US has carried out missile and artillery strikes inside Pakistan targeting al-Qaida members. They have also killed civilians, arousing understandable resentment in Pakistan.But last week, US ground troops carried out their first foray into Pakistan in pursuit of al-Qaida fighters, so today's piece in the New York Times should not come as too much of a surprise.Increased US military activity in Pakistan has been on the cards for some time. American policy makers have made no secret of their impatience at what they see as the lack of Pakistani resolve in pursuing a reinvigorated al-Qaida and Taliban implanting themselves in the tribal areas where central authority has been weak to non-existent for ages.But increased US intervention brings its own dangers, not least if it turns the Pakistani public \u2013 which is increasingly anti-American \u2013 against Zardari, who has vowed to fight terrorism. Should Pakistanis see Zardari as a US stooge, it will make his attempt to restore economic stability and fight the growing extremist threat that much more difficult.The big danger is that if the US does not proceed with tact and care, the US and Pakistan will be working at loggerheads instead of together against a common threat.It does not bode well for the US-Pakistan alliance when General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the head of Pakistan's army, who usually keeps a low profile, went public with a warning against unilateral attacks.\"Falling for short-term gains while ignoring our long-term interest is not the right way forward,\" Kayani said, in what can only be seen as a very direct message to Bush and whoever succeeds him in November.A more overt US military role poses dangers for the next occupant of the White House as well, with a war-weary public. As the Times of India, which has been watching America's growing willingness to involve itself militarily in Pakistan, notes:\"Most interventions in Third World countries begin with such ventures involving advisers and trainers, as it happened with the Soviet involvement in Afghanistan and Cuba. Although widely regarded as a vassal state, Pakistan had avoided direct involvement of US troops inside its territory to avoid a public backlash from an increasingly anti-American mood in the country.\"", "tags": ["George Bush", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Cracks show in 'war on terror' coalition"},{"date": "2008-09-22T10:15:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistanis have to shed any illusions about the militants who blew up the Marriot hotel, the News, a national daily newspaper, declares in a tough editorial.It is senseless to point fingers elsewhere. We must wake up to the fact that these people come from amongst us; they target venues within the country and they kill their own countrymen. It is time we accepted this war is our own.The News goes on to argue that the tendency to give the militants the benefit of the doubt has allowed them to flourish and says the government must lose no time in building a consensus to take on the terrorists.The opinions we still hear everywhere, in roadside cafes, in offices - and among the country's establishment - that the militants who have entrenched themselves in northern areas are 'good' people, that force should not be used against them - is one reason why we today face such high levels of peril.Anatol Lieven, writing in the Times, discusses the excuses ordinary Pakistanis make for the terrorists. After dozens of workers were killed at a munitions complex last month, many Pakistanis told him the attack was justified because it was a military target and the military were taking American money to kill their own people.The latest attack, he says, may lead to a stronger determination for the civilian government and the military to work together to defeat extremists. It may remind the west that Pakistan is not just an aspect of its campaign in Afghanistan but a much more important country. \"It needs all the help we can give,\" he concludes.Taking up this theme of aid, the Independent says it may be too much to expect that a large amount of foreign aid can help, but in the absence of any other solution it remains the only hope.In the same paper, Yasmin Alibhai-Brown  throws up her hands in despair at the willingness of Muslims to inflict death and suffering on fellow Muslims.I, a Muslim who fights daily against the unjust treatment of Muslims in the west, have to face the blinding truth that although we have serious external enemies, more Muslims are hurt, wounded, killed and denied by other Muslims who feel themselves to be virtuous.Dawn, another Pakistani paper, bemoans the lack of leadership as the country lurches deeper into crisis.What is truly distressing about Pakistan is the utter lack of any visible direction. Since August 6, Pakistan has been fighting militants in Bajaur. Yet virtually no one in the country is aware of who we are fighting and why. Worse yet, it's not clear who is responsible for the operation: the political government, the military or both? Is it any surprise that the people are confused and split when they do not know who we are fighting, why we are fighting and even who 'we' is?", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan sheds illusions"},{"date": "2008-09-05T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the Asian Human Rights Commission website that first alerted me to the fact that five women had been buried alive as part of an honour killing in the tribal area of Baluchistan \u2013 an atrocity beyond imagination. Within days this tragedy had been reported in the Pakistan national press and almost immediately Baluchistan's Senator Yasmeen Shah took the case to the senate.The treatment of these women shocked and angered me \u2013 and countless others throughout Pakistan. On top of that, when I heard that Senator Israrullah Zehri and Senator Jan Mohammad Jamali stood up in the senate and attempted to justify the murders as \"Baluch tradition\" I was in despair. They said that we should not even be discussing Baluch traditions in the senate. Fortunately, they represent a minority mindset. The case has caused a national uproar. When I realised that the senate was unlikely to take the murders seriously I started to organise. (I've long been involved in human rights issues, writing articles and organising public protests.) I sent emails to various NGOs, human rights activists and also to the Women's Action Forum, calling on them to demonstrate in front of the senate in Islamabad. Although on such short notice I had expected around 100 protesters to come, on the day we had more than three times that number.  I am now working closely with Yasmeen Shah, whom I met for the first time at our demonstration. At our request she is now trying to get someone who believes in human rights to join the special committee that has been set up to investigate this crime. There needs to be an independent voice or the entire process will be biased toward Baluch politics. These atrocities represent the structural violence against women in Pakistan. They certainly made me realise that enormous steps have to be taken in the judicial and tribal systems, which thrive on gender hierarchies and inequalities. The people who are guardians of these systems take any challenge \u2013 particularly from women \u2013 as a threat. I feel that the desire to control women's lives and their sexuality is far greater in areas where feudal and tribal systems are prevalent. For example, you will not find the same oppression of women in Islamabad, Karachi or Lahore. But where there is a strong tribal or feudal hold you see that women's sexuality is strictly controlled by the family \u2013 and particularly the male members of the family. I believe that it's high time we introduce land reforms to do away with the tribal and chiefdom systems. We also need to do away with parallel judicial systems such as jirga and punchyat. It's the elected representatives of these systems who have huge stakes in maintaining the gender status quo, and there is very little hope for us that they will do anything to protect women. It is not going to be an easy fight.I believe that the men involved in these honour killings should be arrested and put through the due process of law, but this is not happening in Pakistan. Sadly, the people who inflict this violence on women are getting away with it because they are influential and can manipulate the legal system to escape punishment. And they do. But I believe we should not let this case go. We have to make sure that the perpetrators are punished. We should also ask for long-term legal changes to be made so that women in this country can expect some protection from the law. Although I was shocked and very angry to hear about the murder of these five Baluch women, it's not the first time that this sort of thing has happened. There have been other cases, equally barbaric, that didn't receive such attention. A few months ago, for instance, there was an incident in southern Punjab \u2013 a village woman was accused of having an illegitimate relationship and was stoned to death. Gender inequality is endemic throughout Pakistan, but its manifestation differs between urban and rural areas, and also between social classes. At a professional level, I don't face severe discrimination, but as the head of the Department of Gender Studies at Quaid-e-Azam University in Islamabad, I feel that the university administration, which is run mostly by men, has been unsupportive of my department and at one point even tried to kill it off. Various vice-chancellors along the way have said that gender studies is not a discipline but a mere western clich\u00e9 with no relevance to Pakistan. Other bias I have experienced comes as the result of being vocal about gender issues. When members of the militant group Jamai Hafsa took over the children's library at the Red Mosque in Islamabad and demanded the promulgation of Sharia law, I protested against them. I've been very active in the repeal of the Islamic Hudood legislation that requires, for example, a woman who has been raped to procure four male Muslim witnesses to support her case. Without four male Muslim witnesses, she could find herself accused of adultery and stoned to death. There are fatwas issued against me saying that I should be killed as I am not a Muslim woman. I feel a general sense of insecurity because the people I'm up against are very militant. I feel that at any time they can walk into my home and slit my throat. It is the kind of risk that I have to live with. If I let fear in it will incapacitate me. I have to remain brave, because there are so many risks. As an activist and a professional, I keep seeing different manifestations of this terrible gender bias \u2013 of which the latest is the unfathomable brutality of these Baluchistan honour killings.\u2022 Dr Farzana Bari was interviewed by Saundra Satterlee.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "Religion", "Human rights"], "title": "Deadly traditions in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-09-01T05:29:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani journalist Abdul Aziz has been killed during an attack by Pakistan forces on a Taliban hideout in the area of Swat. He was abducted two days earlier by a Taliban group. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Kidnapped Pakistan journalist killed"},{"date": "2008-08-29T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Four Baloch prisoners have been burned alive in hot coal tar by the Pakistan army during military operations in annexed and occupied Balochistan, according to the Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC).Last week the AHRC received confirmation that Pakistani soldiers arrested four people on April 5 2008, in the Dera Bugti district of Balochistan, and subjected them to torture. They were asked to identify local supporters of the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA). After failing to get any names from them, the victims were immersed in scolding hot coal tar. Three of the men were literally boiled and burned to death. A fourth died later from his injuries. Villagers in the area also claim the Pakistan army used a form of chemical gas against them and that some of the gassed survivors were later shot. Their bodies have not been handed over to relatives for burial.These and many other crimes against humanity are still happening in Balochistan, despite the resignation of the dictator President, Pervez Musharraf, and despite Pakistan's ostensible transition to democratic government.During July and August, over 100 Baloch persons were killed, 250 disappeared and more than 20,000 were displaced. They are victims of intensified military operations by the Pakistan army, which has occupied Balochistan since invading in 1948 and forcibly incorporating it into Pakistan. Cobra attack helicopters that were  provided (pdf) by the US to help defeat the Taliban and al-Qaida are instead being used to crush the Baloch people. On May 1 this year, the new democratically elected prime minister of Pakistan, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, publicly apologised for the persecution of the Baloch people and pledged to halt military assaults in Balochistan:It has been decided that no army action will be carried out in the province (of Balochistan) until a strategy is formulated in consultation with representatives of the provincial government to deal with the issue of law and order in the province.Contradicting these assurances, Pakistan's war of aggression seems to be intensifying. The Daily Jang newspaper reported on August 21 that the armed forces of Pakistan had deployed more troops in the region, killing innocent civilians in repeated aerial bombardments. Pakistan's minister of the interior visited the area on August 20 and announced that military operations would continue if Baloch nationalists and freedom fighters continued to be supported and protected by the people. The same newspaper also reported on August 24, that military operations have been expanded to new areas in Balochistan. Over the last few years of Pakistani attacks on Balochistan, the AHRC reports that about 3,000 people have died, around 200,000 have been displaced, and more than 4,000 people have been arrested by the police, army and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).The AHRC is organising an urgent action appeal to the government of Pakistan, calling on it to investigate the killing of civilians and to halt military operations in Balochistan. Click here to send an automated letter to key Pakistani leaders. Or you can email your own, personalised appeal, direct to the Pakistani prime minister, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, at webmaster@infopak.gov.pk", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Peter Tatchell: Pakistan continues to abuse human rights in Balochistan"},{"date": "2008-08-18T09:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "After indicating they were willing to support Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf's exit, US officials are now being forced to contemplate something which they had previously viewed as unthinkable: a Pakistan without their trusted general at its helm. Even the Pakistani military signaled they were no longer willing to support Musharraf, leaving the embattled leader with very few friends.The question everyone was asking was: how long will he last? Tariq Ali, writing on Comment is free last week, gave Musharraf only days in office. Now we know: the General has resigned, rather than face the threat of an unprecedented impeachment from Pakistan's parliament. This leaves the United States and its western allies like Britain in a difficult position. The US \u2013 as it has done so many times \u2013 put all its eggs in one basket in the military ruler Musharraf, and perceptions of the US have plummeted along with Musharraf's career. An overwhelming percentage of Pakistanis are opposed to Musharraf's war against militants in Pakistan's tribal areas, seeing it as an unnecessary American intervention that has made Pakistan less secure. The US must understand that in voting to impeach Musharraf, Pakistanis wanted to vote against the US and the way it is conducting its \"war on terror\" in Pakistan. Prominent Pakistani government figures, including PML chairman Nawaz Sharif, PPP co-chairman Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani, have pushed for a new approach to Pakistan's tribal areas which focuses more on dialogue instead of Musharraf's bombardments which radicalised the tribes and led to a perception that their religion, culture, and ethnicity were under attack. The departure of Musharraf is a strong indication that the US needs to change course quickly in its \"war on terror\" in the region, a change demanded by Pakistan's population. Pakistan is America's major non-Nato ally, but its population is drifting further and further from the US. If the US does not shift to a more culturally nuanced, efficient policy in the tribal areas that balances the threat of force with efforts to reach out to the tribes and understand their position, it will be in danger of continuing to promote Musharraf, even now that he has gone, by perpetuating the discredited policies that characterised his rule. This will have a disastrous effect on US-Pakistan relations and will also serve to swing the pendulum further towards religious conservatives who preach that Islam is under attack from the US.In the face of Musharraf's exit, I am left thinking of what might have been. I had the opportunity to spend an hour with Musharraf in Rawalpindi as a part of a research trip I took around the Muslim world for the book Journey into Islam: The Crisis of Globalization by Akbar Ahmed (Brookings Press: 2007). The Musharraf I met was warm, engaged, and possessed a genuine sense of humour. He spoke passionately about Pakistan and also Islam, especially the moving experience he had taking the haj to Saudi Arabia. He spoke of the need to balance Islamic religion and culture with the opportunities offered by the west, and said that it was possible to be both Muslim and modern without being western. He also, curiously, spoke of his admiration for Napoleon Bonaparte in a discussion about history; I think he may have seen himself as a patriotic military leader who sought to implement religious freedom and other reforms through the military. Musharraf failed in this dream, partly because of the trappings of absolute power and partly because myopic directions from Washington to attack terrorists diverted any education funds there might have been toward weaponry to reign down upon the restive tribes. It is interesting because, Musharraf's dream for Pakistan is exactly the vision of Pakistan's founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who formed a modern, democratic Muslim state on the basis of human rights, women's rights, and minority rights in 1947. It is this vision that both the US and the Pakistani government must return to as the country moves into the post-Musharraf era. This means strengthening the judiciary and rule of law while also reinstating Pakistan's civil service \u2013 the organisation Jinnah once referred to as the \"steel structure\" of the state \u2013 which Musharraf dismantled in favor of the military. The post Musharraf-era is in the hands of the people of Pakistan. The US can help by providing its ally with strong leadership, guidance, and resources to strengthen a fragile democracy. But if America reverts to the same Musharraf-era policies and the law and order situation deteriorates further, Pakistan could soon be saluting a new military dictator.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Frankie Martin: Pakistan, post-Musharraf"},{"date": "2008-09-11T11:33:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "When George Bush announced the withdrawal of 8,000 combat troops from Iraq this week, he devoted a considerable amount of his speech to Afghanistan and Pakistan, where Asif Ali Zardari has just succeeded a disgraced Pervez Musharraf as president.Specifically, Bush said the US had to help Pakistan defeat Taliban and al-Qaida fighters hiding in its remote border regions with Afghanistan, where, the US president reminded us, the global war on terror started with the attacks on the World Trade Centre.\"Defeating these terrorist and extremists is also Pakistan's responsibility - because every nation has an obligation to govern its own territory and make certain that it does not become a safe haven for terror. America and our Nato allies will continue helping Pakistan in its efforts to defeat the extremists.\"Bush's remarks take on added significance in light of an article in today's New York Times, which reports that he secretly approved orders in July allowing US special forces to make ground assaults inside Pakistan without the prior approval of the Pakistani government.For some time now, the US has carried out missile and artillery strikes inside Pakistan targeting al-Qaida members. They have also killed civilians, arousing understandable resentment in Pakistan.But last week, US ground troops carried out their first foray into Pakistan in pursuit of al-Qaida fighters, so today's piece in the New York Times should not come as too much of a surprise.Increased US military activity in Pakistan has been on the cards for some time. American policy makers have made no secret of their impatience at what they see as the lack of Pakistani resolve in pursuing a reinvigorated al-Qaida and Taliban implanting themselves in the tribal areas where central authority has been weak to non-existent for ages.But increased US intervention brings its own dangers, not least if it turns the Pakistani public \u2013 which is increasingly anti-American \u2013 against Zardari, who has vowed to fight terrorism. Should Pakistanis see Zardari as a US stooge, it will make his attempt to restore economic stability and fight the growing extremist threat that much more difficult.The big danger is that if the US does not proceed with tact and care, the US and Pakistan will be working at loggerheads instead of together against a common threat.It does not bode well for the US-Pakistan alliance when General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the head of Pakistan's army, who usually keeps a low profile, went public with a warning against unilateral attacks.\"Falling for short-term gains while ignoring our long-term interest is not the right way forward,\" Kayani said, in what can only be seen as a very direct message to Bush and whoever succeeds him in November.A more overt US military role poses dangers for the next occupant of the White House as well, with a war-weary public. As the Times of India, which has been watching America's growing willingness to involve itself militarily in Pakistan, notes:\"Most interventions in Third World countries begin with such ventures involving advisers and trainers, as it happened with the Soviet involvement in Afghanistan and Cuba. Although widely regarded as a vassal state, Pakistan had avoided direct involvement of US troops inside its territory to avoid a public backlash from an increasingly anti-American mood in the country.\"", "tags": ["George Bush", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Cracks show in 'war on terror' coalition"},{"date": "2008-09-06T09:53:31Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A car full of explosives drove into a security checkpoint outside Peshawar in north-west Pakistan today, killing at least 12 people and injuring 50 others in the latest suicide bombing in the area.A police official confirmed the death toll and said many people were trapped under the debris of two damaged buildings in a nearby market.Television footage showed wrecked cars and pieces of the destroyed checkpoint scattered across a large area. Officials at Lady Reading Hospital in Peshawar, said about 30 wounded people had come in for treatment.\"They have got multiple wounds,\" said one doctor, Mohammad Idrees. \"Some of them have their arms and legs broken, and others have got head injuries. We have declared an emergency here.\"There were no immediate claims of responsibility for the blast. In recent weeks, the Pakistani Taliban say they have carried out a series of suicide bombings in revenge for military offensives in the north-west region that borders Afghanistan.The US has pushed Pakistan to crack down on militants who are using Pakistani territory to launch attacks on US and Nato forces in Afghanistan. A recent US-led foray into a Pakistani tribal region from Afghanistan, however, triggered an angry reaction from Islamabad.The latest atrocity came as Pakistani MPs were voting for a new president. Asif Ali Zardari, the widower of the assassinated former leader Benazir Bhutto,  is expected to win easily. Zardari, 53, is close to the US and has repeatedly stressed Pakistan's commitment to combating radicalism in Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Suicide bomb kills 12 near Peshawar"},{"date": "2008-09-22T10:15:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistanis have to shed any illusions about the militants who blew up the Marriot hotel, the News, a national daily newspaper, declares in a tough editorial.It is senseless to point fingers elsewhere. We must wake up to the fact that these people come from amongst us; they target venues within the country and they kill their own countrymen. It is time we accepted this war is our own.The News goes on to argue that the tendency to give the militants the benefit of the doubt has allowed them to flourish and says the government must lose no time in building a consensus to take on the terrorists.The opinions we still hear everywhere, in roadside cafes, in offices - and among the country's establishment - that the militants who have entrenched themselves in northern areas are 'good' people, that force should not be used against them - is one reason why we today face such high levels of peril.Anatol Lieven, writing in the Times, discusses the excuses ordinary Pakistanis make for the terrorists. After dozens of workers were killed at a munitions complex last month, many Pakistanis told him the attack was justified because it was a military target and the military were taking American money to kill their own people.The latest attack, he says, may lead to a stronger determination for the civilian government and the military to work together to defeat extremists. It may remind the west that Pakistan is not just an aspect of its campaign in Afghanistan but a much more important country. \"It needs all the help we can give,\" he concludes.Taking up this theme of aid, the Independent says it may be too much to expect that a large amount of foreign aid can help, but in the absence of any other solution it remains the only hope.In the same paper, Yasmin Alibhai-Brown  throws up her hands in despair at the willingness of Muslims to inflict death and suffering on fellow Muslims.I, a Muslim who fights daily against the unjust treatment of Muslims in the west, have to face the blinding truth that although we have serious external enemies, more Muslims are hurt, wounded, killed and denied by other Muslims who feel themselves to be virtuous.Dawn, another Pakistani paper, bemoans the lack of leadership as the country lurches deeper into crisis.What is truly distressing about Pakistan is the utter lack of any visible direction. Since August 6, Pakistan has been fighting militants in Bajaur. Yet virtually no one in the country is aware of who we are fighting and why. Worse yet, it's not clear who is responsible for the operation: the political government, the military or both? Is it any surprise that the people are confused and split when they do not know who we are fighting, why we are fighting and even who 'we' is?", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan sheds illusions"},{"date": "2008-09-05T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the Asian Human Rights Commission website that first alerted me to the fact that five women had been buried alive as part of an honour killing in the tribal area of Baluchistan \u2013 an atrocity beyond imagination. Within days this tragedy had been reported in the Pakistan national press and almost immediately Baluchistan's Senator Yasmeen Shah took the case to the senate.The treatment of these women shocked and angered me \u2013 and countless others throughout Pakistan. On top of that, when I heard that Senator Israrullah Zehri and Senator Jan Mohammad Jamali stood up in the senate and attempted to justify the murders as \"Baluch tradition\" I was in despair. They said that we should not even be discussing Baluch traditions in the senate. Fortunately, they represent a minority mindset. The case has caused a national uproar. When I realised that the senate was unlikely to take the murders seriously I started to organise. (I've long been involved in human rights issues, writing articles and organising public protests.) I sent emails to various NGOs, human rights activists and also to the Women's Action Forum, calling on them to demonstrate in front of the senate in Islamabad. Although on such short notice I had expected around 100 protesters to come, on the day we had more than three times that number.  I am now working closely with Yasmeen Shah, whom I met for the first time at our demonstration. At our request she is now trying to get someone who believes in human rights to join the special committee that has been set up to investigate this crime. There needs to be an independent voice or the entire process will be biased toward Baluch politics. These atrocities represent the structural violence against women in Pakistan. They certainly made me realise that enormous steps have to be taken in the judicial and tribal systems, which thrive on gender hierarchies and inequalities. The people who are guardians of these systems take any challenge \u2013 particularly from women \u2013 as a threat. I feel that the desire to control women's lives and their sexuality is far greater in areas where feudal and tribal systems are prevalent. For example, you will not find the same oppression of women in Islamabad, Karachi or Lahore. But where there is a strong tribal or feudal hold you see that women's sexuality is strictly controlled by the family \u2013 and particularly the male members of the family. I believe that it's high time we introduce land reforms to do away with the tribal and chiefdom systems. We also need to do away with parallel judicial systems such as jirga and punchyat. It's the elected representatives of these systems who have huge stakes in maintaining the gender status quo, and there is very little hope for us that they will do anything to protect women. It is not going to be an easy fight.I believe that the men involved in these honour killings should be arrested and put through the due process of law, but this is not happening in Pakistan. Sadly, the people who inflict this violence on women are getting away with it because they are influential and can manipulate the legal system to escape punishment. And they do. But I believe we should not let this case go. We have to make sure that the perpetrators are punished. We should also ask for long-term legal changes to be made so that women in this country can expect some protection from the law. Although I was shocked and very angry to hear about the murder of these five Baluch women, it's not the first time that this sort of thing has happened. There have been other cases, equally barbaric, that didn't receive such attention. A few months ago, for instance, there was an incident in southern Punjab \u2013 a village woman was accused of having an illegitimate relationship and was stoned to death. Gender inequality is endemic throughout Pakistan, but its manifestation differs between urban and rural areas, and also between social classes. At a professional level, I don't face severe discrimination, but as the head of the Department of Gender Studies at Quaid-e-Azam University in Islamabad, I feel that the university administration, which is run mostly by men, has been unsupportive of my department and at one point even tried to kill it off. Various vice-chancellors along the way have said that gender studies is not a discipline but a mere western clich\u00e9 with no relevance to Pakistan. Other bias I have experienced comes as the result of being vocal about gender issues. When members of the militant group Jamai Hafsa took over the children's library at the Red Mosque in Islamabad and demanded the promulgation of Sharia law, I protested against them. I've been very active in the repeal of the Islamic Hudood legislation that requires, for example, a woman who has been raped to procure four male Muslim witnesses to support her case. Without four male Muslim witnesses, she could find herself accused of adultery and stoned to death. There are fatwas issued against me saying that I should be killed as I am not a Muslim woman. I feel a general sense of insecurity because the people I'm up against are very militant. I feel that at any time they can walk into my home and slit my throat. It is the kind of risk that I have to live with. If I let fear in it will incapacitate me. I have to remain brave, because there are so many risks. As an activist and a professional, I keep seeing different manifestations of this terrible gender bias \u2013 of which the latest is the unfathomable brutality of these Baluchistan honour killings.\u2022 Dr Farzana Bari was interviewed by Saundra Satterlee.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "Religion", "Human rights"], "title": "Deadly traditions in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-09-01T05:29:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani journalist Abdul Aziz has been killed during an attack by Pakistan forces on a Taliban hideout in the area of Swat. He was abducted two days earlier by a Taliban group. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Kidnapped Pakistan journalist killed"},{"date": "2008-08-29T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Four Baloch prisoners have been burned alive in hot coal tar by the Pakistan army during military operations in annexed and occupied Balochistan, according to the Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC).Last week the AHRC received confirmation that Pakistani soldiers arrested four people on April 5 2008, in the Dera Bugti district of Balochistan, and subjected them to torture. They were asked to identify local supporters of the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA). After failing to get any names from them, the victims were immersed in scolding hot coal tar. Three of the men were literally boiled and burned to death. A fourth died later from his injuries. Villagers in the area also claim the Pakistan army used a form of chemical gas against them and that some of the gassed survivors were later shot. Their bodies have not been handed over to relatives for burial.These and many other crimes against humanity are still happening in Balochistan, despite the resignation of the dictator President, Pervez Musharraf, and despite Pakistan's ostensible transition to democratic government.During July and August, over 100 Baloch persons were killed, 250 disappeared and more than 20,000 were displaced. They are victims of intensified military operations by the Pakistan army, which has occupied Balochistan since invading in 1948 and forcibly incorporating it into Pakistan. Cobra attack helicopters that were  provided (pdf) by the US to help defeat the Taliban and al-Qaida are instead being used to crush the Baloch people. On May 1 this year, the new democratically elected prime minister of Pakistan, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, publicly apologised for the persecution of the Baloch people and pledged to halt military assaults in Balochistan:It has been decided that no army action will be carried out in the province (of Balochistan) until a strategy is formulated in consultation with representatives of the provincial government to deal with the issue of law and order in the province.Contradicting these assurances, Pakistan's war of aggression seems to be intensifying. The Daily Jang newspaper reported on August 21 that the armed forces of Pakistan had deployed more troops in the region, killing innocent civilians in repeated aerial bombardments. Pakistan's minister of the interior visited the area on August 20 and announced that military operations would continue if Baloch nationalists and freedom fighters continued to be supported and protected by the people. The same newspaper also reported on August 24, that military operations have been expanded to new areas in Balochistan. Over the last few years of Pakistani attacks on Balochistan, the AHRC reports that about 3,000 people have died, around 200,000 have been displaced, and more than 4,000 people have been arrested by the police, army and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).The AHRC is organising an urgent action appeal to the government of Pakistan, calling on it to investigate the killing of civilians and to halt military operations in Balochistan. Click here to send an automated letter to key Pakistani leaders. Or you can email your own, personalised appeal, direct to the Pakistani prime minister, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, at webmaster@infopak.gov.pk", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Peter Tatchell: Pakistan continues to abuse human rights in Balochistan"},{"date": "2008-08-18T09:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "After indicating they were willing to support Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf's exit, US officials are now being forced to contemplate something which they had previously viewed as unthinkable: a Pakistan without their trusted general at its helm. Even the Pakistani military signaled they were no longer willing to support Musharraf, leaving the embattled leader with very few friends.The question everyone was asking was: how long will he last? Tariq Ali, writing on Comment is free last week, gave Musharraf only days in office. Now we know: the General has resigned, rather than face the threat of an unprecedented impeachment from Pakistan's parliament. This leaves the United States and its western allies like Britain in a difficult position. The US \u2013 as it has done so many times \u2013 put all its eggs in one basket in the military ruler Musharraf, and perceptions of the US have plummeted along with Musharraf's career. An overwhelming percentage of Pakistanis are opposed to Musharraf's war against militants in Pakistan's tribal areas, seeing it as an unnecessary American intervention that has made Pakistan less secure. The US must understand that in voting to impeach Musharraf, Pakistanis wanted to vote against the US and the way it is conducting its \"war on terror\" in Pakistan. Prominent Pakistani government figures, including PML chairman Nawaz Sharif, PPP co-chairman Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani, have pushed for a new approach to Pakistan's tribal areas which focuses more on dialogue instead of Musharraf's bombardments which radicalised the tribes and led to a perception that their religion, culture, and ethnicity were under attack. The departure of Musharraf is a strong indication that the US needs to change course quickly in its \"war on terror\" in the region, a change demanded by Pakistan's population. Pakistan is America's major non-Nato ally, but its population is drifting further and further from the US. If the US does not shift to a more culturally nuanced, efficient policy in the tribal areas that balances the threat of force with efforts to reach out to the tribes and understand their position, it will be in danger of continuing to promote Musharraf, even now that he has gone, by perpetuating the discredited policies that characterised his rule. This will have a disastrous effect on US-Pakistan relations and will also serve to swing the pendulum further towards religious conservatives who preach that Islam is under attack from the US.In the face of Musharraf's exit, I am left thinking of what might have been. I had the opportunity to spend an hour with Musharraf in Rawalpindi as a part of a research trip I took around the Muslim world for the book Journey into Islam: The Crisis of Globalization by Akbar Ahmed (Brookings Press: 2007). The Musharraf I met was warm, engaged, and possessed a genuine sense of humour. He spoke passionately about Pakistan and also Islam, especially the moving experience he had taking the haj to Saudi Arabia. He spoke of the need to balance Islamic religion and culture with the opportunities offered by the west, and said that it was possible to be both Muslim and modern without being western. He also, curiously, spoke of his admiration for Napoleon Bonaparte in a discussion about history; I think he may have seen himself as a patriotic military leader who sought to implement religious freedom and other reforms through the military. Musharraf failed in this dream, partly because of the trappings of absolute power and partly because myopic directions from Washington to attack terrorists diverted any education funds there might have been toward weaponry to reign down upon the restive tribes. It is interesting because, Musharraf's dream for Pakistan is exactly the vision of Pakistan's founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who formed a modern, democratic Muslim state on the basis of human rights, women's rights, and minority rights in 1947. It is this vision that both the US and the Pakistani government must return to as the country moves into the post-Musharraf era. This means strengthening the judiciary and rule of law while also reinstating Pakistan's civil service \u2013 the organisation Jinnah once referred to as the \"steel structure\" of the state \u2013 which Musharraf dismantled in favor of the military. The post Musharraf-era is in the hands of the people of Pakistan. The US can help by providing its ally with strong leadership, guidance, and resources to strengthen a fragile democracy. But if America reverts to the same Musharraf-era policies and the law and order situation deteriorates further, Pakistan could soon be saluting a new military dictator.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Frankie Martin: Pakistan, post-Musharraf"},{"date": "2008-09-11T11:33:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "When George Bush announced the withdrawal of 8,000 combat troops from Iraq this week, he devoted a considerable amount of his speech to Afghanistan and Pakistan, where Asif Ali Zardari has just succeeded a disgraced Pervez Musharraf as president.Specifically, Bush said the US had to help Pakistan defeat Taliban and al-Qaida fighters hiding in its remote border regions with Afghanistan, where, the US president reminded us, the global war on terror started with the attacks on the World Trade Centre.\"Defeating these terrorist and extremists is also Pakistan's responsibility - because every nation has an obligation to govern its own territory and make certain that it does not become a safe haven for terror. America and our Nato allies will continue helping Pakistan in its efforts to defeat the extremists.\"Bush's remarks take on added significance in light of an article in today's New York Times, which reports that he secretly approved orders in July allowing US special forces to make ground assaults inside Pakistan without the prior approval of the Pakistani government.For some time now, the US has carried out missile and artillery strikes inside Pakistan targeting al-Qaida members. They have also killed civilians, arousing understandable resentment in Pakistan.But last week, US ground troops carried out their first foray into Pakistan in pursuit of al-Qaida fighters, so today's piece in the New York Times should not come as too much of a surprise.Increased US military activity in Pakistan has been on the cards for some time. American policy makers have made no secret of their impatience at what they see as the lack of Pakistani resolve in pursuing a reinvigorated al-Qaida and Taliban implanting themselves in the tribal areas where central authority has been weak to non-existent for ages.But increased US intervention brings its own dangers, not least if it turns the Pakistani public \u2013 which is increasingly anti-American \u2013 against Zardari, who has vowed to fight terrorism. Should Pakistanis see Zardari as a US stooge, it will make his attempt to restore economic stability and fight the growing extremist threat that much more difficult.The big danger is that if the US does not proceed with tact and care, the US and Pakistan will be working at loggerheads instead of together against a common threat.It does not bode well for the US-Pakistan alliance when General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the head of Pakistan's army, who usually keeps a low profile, went public with a warning against unilateral attacks.\"Falling for short-term gains while ignoring our long-term interest is not the right way forward,\" Kayani said, in what can only be seen as a very direct message to Bush and whoever succeeds him in November.A more overt US military role poses dangers for the next occupant of the White House as well, with a war-weary public. As the Times of India, which has been watching America's growing willingness to involve itself militarily in Pakistan, notes:\"Most interventions in Third World countries begin with such ventures involving advisers and trainers, as it happened with the Soviet involvement in Afghanistan and Cuba. Although widely regarded as a vassal state, Pakistan had avoided direct involvement of US troops inside its territory to avoid a public backlash from an increasingly anti-American mood in the country.\"", "tags": ["George Bush", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Cracks show in 'war on terror' coalition"},{"date": "2008-09-06T09:53:31Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A car full of explosives drove into a security checkpoint outside Peshawar in north-west Pakistan today, killing at least 12 people and injuring 50 others in the latest suicide bombing in the area.A police official confirmed the death toll and said many people were trapped under the debris of two damaged buildings in a nearby market.Television footage showed wrecked cars and pieces of the destroyed checkpoint scattered across a large area. Officials at Lady Reading Hospital in Peshawar, said about 30 wounded people had come in for treatment.\"They have got multiple wounds,\" said one doctor, Mohammad Idrees. \"Some of them have their arms and legs broken, and others have got head injuries. We have declared an emergency here.\"There were no immediate claims of responsibility for the blast. In recent weeks, the Pakistani Taliban say they have carried out a series of suicide bombings in revenge for military offensives in the north-west region that borders Afghanistan.The US has pushed Pakistan to crack down on militants who are using Pakistani territory to launch attacks on US and Nato forces in Afghanistan. A recent US-led foray into a Pakistani tribal region from Afghanistan, however, triggered an angry reaction from Islamabad.The latest atrocity came as Pakistani MPs were voting for a new president. Asif Ali Zardari, the widower of the assassinated former leader Benazir Bhutto,  is expected to win easily. Zardari, 53, is close to the US and has repeatedly stressed Pakistan's commitment to combating radicalism in Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Suicide bomb kills 12 near Peshawar"},{"date": "2008-08-26T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "If the resignation of President Pervez Musharraf represented a step forward for Pakistan's nascent democratic transition, the collapse of the ruling coalition this week underlined its delicacy. This is a crucial time for the international community, and the United States in particular, to review its relationship with Pakistan - especially when it comes to a strategy for defeating the Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan, and the terrorist threat across the wider region.To begin with, the US must invest more confidence and resources in Pakistan's civil society and its civilian, democratic leadership. The last general election, held in February, in which secular political parties won landslide victories at the expense of extremist groups, reflects the true aspirations of the people, which must be nurtured and supported. Next, the US must recognise the utter futility of working with the Pakistani military establishment. A politically compromised institution, the army is complacent about confronting terrorism and has, over the past seven years, sought to undermine the international effort to stabilise Afghanistan. Above all, the US has to realise that it cannot win the war on terror in Afghanistan's territory. Indeed, to the extent that the terrorist threat in Afghanistan emanates from sanctuaries across the border in Pakistan, it is in Pakistan that terrorism must be defeated. No other strategy stands any chance.Radical though expanding the war on terror into Pakistan may sound, it is not implausible or unrealistic. A few practical steps may be taken: first, the US must initiate a crucial debate about revising the existing modus operandi of the international forces in Afghanistan, currently divided into two separate missions - the Nato-led International Security Assistance Force (Isaf), and the US-led Coalition Joint Task Force. Political assent from allies around the world and Pakistan's leadership will allow a geographical expansion of the theatre of war. In the new arrangement, Isaf must be strengthened to take on a greater role in building up Afghan security forces and help the Afghan government to expand the rule of law across the country. The counter-terrorism mission, on the other hand, must be entrusted to a revitalised, US-led coalition of the willing that includes the newly constituted Afghan national army and the Pakistani military. Without having to invade Pakistani territory, the coalition should establish a viable presence by opening military bases on Pakistani soil. A supreme commander, with deputies from Afghanistan and Pakistan, should be appointed to devise and implement an effective counter-terrorism strategy for operations on both sides of the Durand line that separates the two countries. The coalition should also ensure the security of Pakistan's dangerous nuclear arsenal and prevent any potential proliferation. In doing the above, the US must not be deterred by predictions of a possible public backlash in Pakistan as a result of international military intervention. The assumption, widely held in the west, that Pakistani society is fundamentally hostile towards the west is largely hot air from Pakistan's military establishment. The Pakistani people share some of the rather abstract grievances that Muslim populations across the globe harbour. However, radicalism and militancy are not necessarily ingrained in any Muslim society, including Pakistan's.And if Afghanistan's experience is anything to go by, strong leadership and a true commitment to the security and wellbeing of the people of Pakistan will help the United States to find a staunch ally in the task of ridding the region of the cancer of terrorism. \u00b7 Jawed Ludin is Afghanistan's Ambassador in Oslo jawed.ludin@afghanistanembassy.no", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US foreign policy", "Afghanistan", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "Jawed Ludin: Take this war into Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-09-22T10:15:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistanis have to shed any illusions about the militants who blew up the Marriot hotel, the News, a national daily newspaper, declares in a tough editorial.It is senseless to point fingers elsewhere. We must wake up to the fact that these people come from amongst us; they target venues within the country and they kill their own countrymen. It is time we accepted this war is our own.The News goes on to argue that the tendency to give the militants the benefit of the doubt has allowed them to flourish and says the government must lose no time in building a consensus to take on the terrorists.The opinions we still hear everywhere, in roadside cafes, in offices - and among the country's establishment - that the militants who have entrenched themselves in northern areas are 'good' people, that force should not be used against them - is one reason why we today face such high levels of peril.Anatol Lieven, writing in the Times, discusses the excuses ordinary Pakistanis make for the terrorists. After dozens of workers were killed at a munitions complex last month, many Pakistanis told him the attack was justified because it was a military target and the military were taking American money to kill their own people.The latest attack, he says, may lead to a stronger determination for the civilian government and the military to work together to defeat extremists. It may remind the west that Pakistan is not just an aspect of its campaign in Afghanistan but a much more important country. \"It needs all the help we can give,\" he concludes.Taking up this theme of aid, the Independent says it may be too much to expect that a large amount of foreign aid can help, but in the absence of any other solution it remains the only hope.In the same paper, Yasmin Alibhai-Brown  throws up her hands in despair at the willingness of Muslims to inflict death and suffering on fellow Muslims.I, a Muslim who fights daily against the unjust treatment of Muslims in the west, have to face the blinding truth that although we have serious external enemies, more Muslims are hurt, wounded, killed and denied by other Muslims who feel themselves to be virtuous.Dawn, another Pakistani paper, bemoans the lack of leadership as the country lurches deeper into crisis.What is truly distressing about Pakistan is the utter lack of any visible direction. Since August 6, Pakistan has been fighting militants in Bajaur. Yet virtually no one in the country is aware of who we are fighting and why. Worse yet, it's not clear who is responsible for the operation: the political government, the military or both? Is it any surprise that the people are confused and split when they do not know who we are fighting, why we are fighting and even who 'we' is?", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan sheds illusions"},{"date": "2008-09-05T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the Asian Human Rights Commission website that first alerted me to the fact that five women had been buried alive as part of an honour killing in the tribal area of Baluchistan \u2013 an atrocity beyond imagination. Within days this tragedy had been reported in the Pakistan national press and almost immediately Baluchistan's Senator Yasmeen Shah took the case to the senate.The treatment of these women shocked and angered me \u2013 and countless others throughout Pakistan. On top of that, when I heard that Senator Israrullah Zehri and Senator Jan Mohammad Jamali stood up in the senate and attempted to justify the murders as \"Baluch tradition\" I was in despair. They said that we should not even be discussing Baluch traditions in the senate. Fortunately, they represent a minority mindset. The case has caused a national uproar. When I realised that the senate was unlikely to take the murders seriously I started to organise. (I've long been involved in human rights issues, writing articles and organising public protests.) I sent emails to various NGOs, human rights activists and also to the Women's Action Forum, calling on them to demonstrate in front of the senate in Islamabad. Although on such short notice I had expected around 100 protesters to come, on the day we had more than three times that number.  I am now working closely with Yasmeen Shah, whom I met for the first time at our demonstration. At our request she is now trying to get someone who believes in human rights to join the special committee that has been set up to investigate this crime. There needs to be an independent voice or the entire process will be biased toward Baluch politics. These atrocities represent the structural violence against women in Pakistan. They certainly made me realise that enormous steps have to be taken in the judicial and tribal systems, which thrive on gender hierarchies and inequalities. The people who are guardians of these systems take any challenge \u2013 particularly from women \u2013 as a threat. I feel that the desire to control women's lives and their sexuality is far greater in areas where feudal and tribal systems are prevalent. For example, you will not find the same oppression of women in Islamabad, Karachi or Lahore. But where there is a strong tribal or feudal hold you see that women's sexuality is strictly controlled by the family \u2013 and particularly the male members of the family. I believe that it's high time we introduce land reforms to do away with the tribal and chiefdom systems. We also need to do away with parallel judicial systems such as jirga and punchyat. It's the elected representatives of these systems who have huge stakes in maintaining the gender status quo, and there is very little hope for us that they will do anything to protect women. It is not going to be an easy fight.I believe that the men involved in these honour killings should be arrested and put through the due process of law, but this is not happening in Pakistan. Sadly, the people who inflict this violence on women are getting away with it because they are influential and can manipulate the legal system to escape punishment. And they do. But I believe we should not let this case go. We have to make sure that the perpetrators are punished. We should also ask for long-term legal changes to be made so that women in this country can expect some protection from the law. Although I was shocked and very angry to hear about the murder of these five Baluch women, it's not the first time that this sort of thing has happened. There have been other cases, equally barbaric, that didn't receive such attention. A few months ago, for instance, there was an incident in southern Punjab \u2013 a village woman was accused of having an illegitimate relationship and was stoned to death. Gender inequality is endemic throughout Pakistan, but its manifestation differs between urban and rural areas, and also between social classes. At a professional level, I don't face severe discrimination, but as the head of the Department of Gender Studies at Quaid-e-Azam University in Islamabad, I feel that the university administration, which is run mostly by men, has been unsupportive of my department and at one point even tried to kill it off. Various vice-chancellors along the way have said that gender studies is not a discipline but a mere western clich\u00e9 with no relevance to Pakistan. Other bias I have experienced comes as the result of being vocal about gender issues. When members of the militant group Jamai Hafsa took over the children's library at the Red Mosque in Islamabad and demanded the promulgation of Sharia law, I protested against them. I've been very active in the repeal of the Islamic Hudood legislation that requires, for example, a woman who has been raped to procure four male Muslim witnesses to support her case. Without four male Muslim witnesses, she could find herself accused of adultery and stoned to death. There are fatwas issued against me saying that I should be killed as I am not a Muslim woman. I feel a general sense of insecurity because the people I'm up against are very militant. I feel that at any time they can walk into my home and slit my throat. It is the kind of risk that I have to live with. If I let fear in it will incapacitate me. I have to remain brave, because there are so many risks. As an activist and a professional, I keep seeing different manifestations of this terrible gender bias \u2013 of which the latest is the unfathomable brutality of these Baluchistan honour killings.\u2022 Dr Farzana Bari was interviewed by Saundra Satterlee.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "Religion", "Human rights"], "title": "Deadly traditions in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-09-01T05:29:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani journalist Abdul Aziz has been killed during an attack by Pakistan forces on a Taliban hideout in the area of Swat. He was abducted two days earlier by a Taliban group. (Via IFJ)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Kidnapped Pakistan journalist killed"},{"date": "2008-08-29T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Four Baloch prisoners have been burned alive in hot coal tar by the Pakistan army during military operations in annexed and occupied Balochistan, according to the Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC).Last week the AHRC received confirmation that Pakistani soldiers arrested four people on April 5 2008, in the Dera Bugti district of Balochistan, and subjected them to torture. They were asked to identify local supporters of the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA). After failing to get any names from them, the victims were immersed in scolding hot coal tar. Three of the men were literally boiled and burned to death. A fourth died later from his injuries. Villagers in the area also claim the Pakistan army used a form of chemical gas against them and that some of the gassed survivors were later shot. Their bodies have not been handed over to relatives for burial.These and many other crimes against humanity are still happening in Balochistan, despite the resignation of the dictator President, Pervez Musharraf, and despite Pakistan's ostensible transition to democratic government.During July and August, over 100 Baloch persons were killed, 250 disappeared and more than 20,000 were displaced. They are victims of intensified military operations by the Pakistan army, which has occupied Balochistan since invading in 1948 and forcibly incorporating it into Pakistan. Cobra attack helicopters that were  provided (pdf) by the US to help defeat the Taliban and al-Qaida are instead being used to crush the Baloch people. On May 1 this year, the new democratically elected prime minister of Pakistan, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, publicly apologised for the persecution of the Baloch people and pledged to halt military assaults in Balochistan:It has been decided that no army action will be carried out in the province (of Balochistan) until a strategy is formulated in consultation with representatives of the provincial government to deal with the issue of law and order in the province.Contradicting these assurances, Pakistan's war of aggression seems to be intensifying. The Daily Jang newspaper reported on August 21 that the armed forces of Pakistan had deployed more troops in the region, killing innocent civilians in repeated aerial bombardments. Pakistan's minister of the interior visited the area on August 20 and announced that military operations would continue if Baloch nationalists and freedom fighters continued to be supported and protected by the people. The same newspaper also reported on August 24, that military operations have been expanded to new areas in Balochistan. Over the last few years of Pakistani attacks on Balochistan, the AHRC reports that about 3,000 people have died, around 200,000 have been displaced, and more than 4,000 people have been arrested by the police, army and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).The AHRC is organising an urgent action appeal to the government of Pakistan, calling on it to investigate the killing of civilians and to halt military operations in Balochistan. Click here to send an automated letter to key Pakistani leaders. Or you can email your own, personalised appeal, direct to the Pakistani prime minister, Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, at webmaster@infopak.gov.pk", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Peter Tatchell: Pakistan continues to abuse human rights in Balochistan"},{"date": "2008-08-18T09:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "After indicating they were willing to support Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf's exit, US officials are now being forced to contemplate something which they had previously viewed as unthinkable: a Pakistan without their trusted general at its helm. Even the Pakistani military signaled they were no longer willing to support Musharraf, leaving the embattled leader with very few friends.The question everyone was asking was: how long will he last? Tariq Ali, writing on Comment is free last week, gave Musharraf only days in office. Now we know: the General has resigned, rather than face the threat of an unprecedented impeachment from Pakistan's parliament. This leaves the United States and its western allies like Britain in a difficult position. The US \u2013 as it has done so many times \u2013 put all its eggs in one basket in the military ruler Musharraf, and perceptions of the US have plummeted along with Musharraf's career. An overwhelming percentage of Pakistanis are opposed to Musharraf's war against militants in Pakistan's tribal areas, seeing it as an unnecessary American intervention that has made Pakistan less secure. The US must understand that in voting to impeach Musharraf, Pakistanis wanted to vote against the US and the way it is conducting its \"war on terror\" in Pakistan. Prominent Pakistani government figures, including PML chairman Nawaz Sharif, PPP co-chairman Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani, have pushed for a new approach to Pakistan's tribal areas which focuses more on dialogue instead of Musharraf's bombardments which radicalised the tribes and led to a perception that their religion, culture, and ethnicity were under attack. The departure of Musharraf is a strong indication that the US needs to change course quickly in its \"war on terror\" in the region, a change demanded by Pakistan's population. Pakistan is America's major non-Nato ally, but its population is drifting further and further from the US. If the US does not shift to a more culturally nuanced, efficient policy in the tribal areas that balances the threat of force with efforts to reach out to the tribes and understand their position, it will be in danger of continuing to promote Musharraf, even now that he has gone, by perpetuating the discredited policies that characterised his rule. This will have a disastrous effect on US-Pakistan relations and will also serve to swing the pendulum further towards religious conservatives who preach that Islam is under attack from the US.In the face of Musharraf's exit, I am left thinking of what might have been. I had the opportunity to spend an hour with Musharraf in Rawalpindi as a part of a research trip I took around the Muslim world for the book Journey into Islam: The Crisis of Globalization by Akbar Ahmed (Brookings Press: 2007). The Musharraf I met was warm, engaged, and possessed a genuine sense of humour. He spoke passionately about Pakistan and also Islam, especially the moving experience he had taking the haj to Saudi Arabia. He spoke of the need to balance Islamic religion and culture with the opportunities offered by the west, and said that it was possible to be both Muslim and modern without being western. He also, curiously, spoke of his admiration for Napoleon Bonaparte in a discussion about history; I think he may have seen himself as a patriotic military leader who sought to implement religious freedom and other reforms through the military. Musharraf failed in this dream, partly because of the trappings of absolute power and partly because myopic directions from Washington to attack terrorists diverted any education funds there might have been toward weaponry to reign down upon the restive tribes. It is interesting because, Musharraf's dream for Pakistan is exactly the vision of Pakistan's founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who formed a modern, democratic Muslim state on the basis of human rights, women's rights, and minority rights in 1947. It is this vision that both the US and the Pakistani government must return to as the country moves into the post-Musharraf era. This means strengthening the judiciary and rule of law while also reinstating Pakistan's civil service \u2013 the organisation Jinnah once referred to as the \"steel structure\" of the state \u2013 which Musharraf dismantled in favor of the military. The post Musharraf-era is in the hands of the people of Pakistan. The US can help by providing its ally with strong leadership, guidance, and resources to strengthen a fragile democracy. But if America reverts to the same Musharraf-era policies and the law and order situation deteriorates further, Pakistan could soon be saluting a new military dictator.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Frankie Martin: Pakistan, post-Musharraf"},{"date": "2008-09-11T11:33:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "When George Bush announced the withdrawal of 8,000 combat troops from Iraq this week, he devoted a considerable amount of his speech to Afghanistan and Pakistan, where Asif Ali Zardari has just succeeded a disgraced Pervez Musharraf as president.Specifically, Bush said the US had to help Pakistan defeat Taliban and al-Qaida fighters hiding in its remote border regions with Afghanistan, where, the US president reminded us, the global war on terror started with the attacks on the World Trade Centre.\"Defeating these terrorist and extremists is also Pakistan's responsibility - because every nation has an obligation to govern its own territory and make certain that it does not become a safe haven for terror. America and our Nato allies will continue helping Pakistan in its efforts to defeat the extremists.\"Bush's remarks take on added significance in light of an article in today's New York Times, which reports that he secretly approved orders in July allowing US special forces to make ground assaults inside Pakistan without the prior approval of the Pakistani government.For some time now, the US has carried out missile and artillery strikes inside Pakistan targeting al-Qaida members. They have also killed civilians, arousing understandable resentment in Pakistan.But last week, US ground troops carried out their first foray into Pakistan in pursuit of al-Qaida fighters, so today's piece in the New York Times should not come as too much of a surprise.Increased US military activity in Pakistan has been on the cards for some time. American policy makers have made no secret of their impatience at what they see as the lack of Pakistani resolve in pursuing a reinvigorated al-Qaida and Taliban implanting themselves in the tribal areas where central authority has been weak to non-existent for ages.But increased US intervention brings its own dangers, not least if it turns the Pakistani public \u2013 which is increasingly anti-American \u2013 against Zardari, who has vowed to fight terrorism. Should Pakistanis see Zardari as a US stooge, it will make his attempt to restore economic stability and fight the growing extremist threat that much more difficult.The big danger is that if the US does not proceed with tact and care, the US and Pakistan will be working at loggerheads instead of together against a common threat.It does not bode well for the US-Pakistan alliance when General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the head of Pakistan's army, who usually keeps a low profile, went public with a warning against unilateral attacks.\"Falling for short-term gains while ignoring our long-term interest is not the right way forward,\" Kayani said, in what can only be seen as a very direct message to Bush and whoever succeeds him in November.A more overt US military role poses dangers for the next occupant of the White House as well, with a war-weary public. As the Times of India, which has been watching America's growing willingness to involve itself militarily in Pakistan, notes:\"Most interventions in Third World countries begin with such ventures involving advisers and trainers, as it happened with the Soviet involvement in Afghanistan and Cuba. Although widely regarded as a vassal state, Pakistan had avoided direct involvement of US troops inside its territory to avoid a public backlash from an increasingly anti-American mood in the country.\"", "tags": ["George Bush", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Cracks show in 'war on terror' coalition"},{"date": "2008-09-06T09:53:31Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A car full of explosives drove into a security checkpoint outside Peshawar in north-west Pakistan today, killing at least 12 people and injuring 50 others in the latest suicide bombing in the area.A police official confirmed the death toll and said many people were trapped under the debris of two damaged buildings in a nearby market.Television footage showed wrecked cars and pieces of the destroyed checkpoint scattered across a large area. Officials at Lady Reading Hospital in Peshawar, said about 30 wounded people had come in for treatment.\"They have got multiple wounds,\" said one doctor, Mohammad Idrees. \"Some of them have their arms and legs broken, and others have got head injuries. We have declared an emergency here.\"There were no immediate claims of responsibility for the blast. In recent weeks, the Pakistani Taliban say they have carried out a series of suicide bombings in revenge for military offensives in the north-west region that borders Afghanistan.The US has pushed Pakistan to crack down on militants who are using Pakistani territory to launch attacks on US and Nato forces in Afghanistan. A recent US-led foray into a Pakistani tribal region from Afghanistan, however, triggered an angry reaction from Islamabad.The latest atrocity came as Pakistani MPs were voting for a new president. Asif Ali Zardari, the widower of the assassinated former leader Benazir Bhutto,  is expected to win easily. Zardari, 53, is close to the US and has repeatedly stressed Pakistan's commitment to combating radicalism in Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Suicide bomb kills 12 near Peshawar"},{"date": "2008-08-26T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "If the resignation of President Pervez Musharraf represented a step forward for Pakistan's nascent democratic transition, the collapse of the ruling coalition this week underlined its delicacy. This is a crucial time for the international community, and the United States in particular, to review its relationship with Pakistan - especially when it comes to a strategy for defeating the Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan, and the terrorist threat across the wider region.To begin with, the US must invest more confidence and resources in Pakistan's civil society and its civilian, democratic leadership. The last general election, held in February, in which secular political parties won landslide victories at the expense of extremist groups, reflects the true aspirations of the people, which must be nurtured and supported. Next, the US must recognise the utter futility of working with the Pakistani military establishment. A politically compromised institution, the army is complacent about confronting terrorism and has, over the past seven years, sought to undermine the international effort to stabilise Afghanistan. Above all, the US has to realise that it cannot win the war on terror in Afghanistan's territory. Indeed, to the extent that the terrorist threat in Afghanistan emanates from sanctuaries across the border in Pakistan, it is in Pakistan that terrorism must be defeated. No other strategy stands any chance.Radical though expanding the war on terror into Pakistan may sound, it is not implausible or unrealistic. A few practical steps may be taken: first, the US must initiate a crucial debate about revising the existing modus operandi of the international forces in Afghanistan, currently divided into two separate missions - the Nato-led International Security Assistance Force (Isaf), and the US-led Coalition Joint Task Force. Political assent from allies around the world and Pakistan's leadership will allow a geographical expansion of the theatre of war. In the new arrangement, Isaf must be strengthened to take on a greater role in building up Afghan security forces and help the Afghan government to expand the rule of law across the country. The counter-terrorism mission, on the other hand, must be entrusted to a revitalised, US-led coalition of the willing that includes the newly constituted Afghan national army and the Pakistani military. Without having to invade Pakistani territory, the coalition should establish a viable presence by opening military bases on Pakistani soil. A supreme commander, with deputies from Afghanistan and Pakistan, should be appointed to devise and implement an effective counter-terrorism strategy for operations on both sides of the Durand line that separates the two countries. The coalition should also ensure the security of Pakistan's dangerous nuclear arsenal and prevent any potential proliferation. In doing the above, the US must not be deterred by predictions of a possible public backlash in Pakistan as a result of international military intervention. The assumption, widely held in the west, that Pakistani society is fundamentally hostile towards the west is largely hot air from Pakistan's military establishment. The Pakistani people share some of the rather abstract grievances that Muslim populations across the globe harbour. However, radicalism and militancy are not necessarily ingrained in any Muslim society, including Pakistan's.And if Afghanistan's experience is anything to go by, strong leadership and a true commitment to the security and wellbeing of the people of Pakistan will help the United States to find a staunch ally in the task of ridding the region of the cancer of terrorism. \u00b7 Jawed Ludin is Afghanistan's Ambassador in Oslo jawed.ludin@afghanistanembassy.no", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US foreign policy", "Afghanistan", "World news", "US politics"], "title": "Jawed Ludin: Take this war into Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-08-22T14:29:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani politicians will elect a new president early next month, the election commission said today.Members of the federal and provincial assemblies must select a successor to Pervez Musharraf, who resigned on Monday to avoid impeachment charges. The commission secretary, Kanwar Dilshad, said the vote would take place on September 6. Nomination papers would be accepted from August 26 and could be withdrawn until August 30, he said. He did not announce a final date for nominations. Wrangling over the presidency is adding to the pressure on the shaky coalition government, which pushed Musharraf from power.Benazir Bhutto's widower, Asif Ali Zardari, who heads the Pakistan People's Party (PPP) \u2013 the largest party in parliament \u2013 has emerged as a likely candidate for the role.\"The majority of the party thinks that Asif Zardari should be president,\" said Farzana Raja, a PPP spokeswoman. A decision on the party's candidate was expected today, she said. Under the constitution, a new president should be elected within 30 days of an incumbent's resignation.The coalition government's second-biggest party, that of the former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, has threatened to quit the alliance, demanding that judges dismissed last year by Musharraf be restored to the bench.Sharif agreed today to a debate in parliament next week on the restoration of judges, while setting a new deadline of Wednesday for the demand to be met.\"This resolution should be tabled before parliament on Monday. On Wednesday, it should be passed and the judges restored,\" Sharif said. The PPP is reluctant to restore the judges because of concern the deposed chief justice might take up challenges to an amnesty from charges against Zardari and other party leaders last year, analysts said.But even if Sharif's party were to move to the opposition benches in parliament it would not force a parliamentary election, analysts said. The PPP is the biggest party in parliament and should be able to gather enough support to remain in government. The PPP and Sharif's party were bitter rivals during the 1990s when Bhutto and Sharif served two terms as prime minister. Thrown together by opposition to Musharraf, their differences are likely to loom larger now that he has gone, analysts said.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan announces presidential election date"},{"date": "2008-12-08T02:16:26Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ahmed began working in a surgical instrument workshop at eight years old. \"I do not like this work, in fact I want to go to school but my father says that I should work,\" he says. Shakeel's three uncles and elder brother all work in the industry. He does all kinds of work including polishing and grinding. He and the other workers are paid on a piece rate for the instruments they make. If Shakeel works all day, he can earn about 170 rupees (\u00a31.42). The work can be dangerous because the workshop does not provide protective equipment or clothing. \"If anything breaks up, it can hit me, I need to work carefully otherwise it is very dangerous.\" Minor injuries in the workshop are common and Shakeel saw a major accident last year. \"[A worker] was operating a polisher, the stone blade broke suddenly and it hit his head and it started to bleed, other workers caught him and carried him to hospital,\" he recalls. Bhatti has been working in the industry since he was nine years old. He says it is common for workers to get into debt with their employers, for example if they have a large expenditure or if the workshop does not have many orders. \"Poor workers get into debt when they have some problem and they pay it back or it is deducted from their wages,\" he says. This can place workers in hoc to their employer and make it difficult for them to demand better conditions. He is paid a piece rate per item he makes and earns 250 to 300 rupees (\u00a32.15 to \u00a32.60) a day. Bhatti is sanguine about the risks of working in the workshop. \"Every work is dangerous,\" he says. \"We are used to it and we work very carefully.\" He has been injured \"many times\" but never seriously. \"I have seen countless workers' injuries, this is part of our work,\" he says.This information about Shakeel Ahmed and Nasir Bhatti was provided by Liaquat Javed, of BRIC Pakistan (Backwards Rehabilitation and Improvement Commission), an NGO set up in 1997 that works to improve the conditions of workers in Pakistan.Javed says conditions in the handful of large surgical instrument factories are generally good, but much of the work is done by workers in small workshops with two to 20 workers. \"The working conditions at home-based units are extremely bad and poor,\" he says. \"There are no health and safety measures and no training. The wages are nominal ... the situation is very bad but workers have no option. If they will not work how will they earn a daily living?\"These conditions are common in the industry. \"If you walk the streets you will find countless workshops where you will see a horrible situation - child labourers, workers' faces full with metal dust and noise. The children operate polishers, grinders and at many units I saw the children working with chemicals without any gloves or masks.\"Workers are not aware of their rights. They are illiterate, they have no unions and they are not allowed to make unions. Workers are deprived of education, health and justice.\"He believes that buyers such as the NHS have the most power to make changes by forcing their suppliers to take action. \"In this horrible situation, buyers can play best role if they put demands to the suppliers. So the NHS can play very positive role,\" he says.Safdir admits that working conditions in the industry could be improved, but says child labour has been almost eliminated. \"No more children are coming into this field,\" he says. \"You can hardly find any children in the industry. The big companies don't have any children.\" The International Labour Organisation's estimate of 5,800 child labourers working in surgical instrument manufacture is out of date, says Safdir, adding that the industry is working to improve conditions for the workers. \"We are regularly monitoring those workshops. We are also investing a lot of money in them for the betterment of their employees and for better working conditions.\"He accuses NGOs such as the ILO of talking up the child labour problem to obtain more charitable donations from abroad. \"The trouble with these people is that if there is no child labour in the surgical industry, how are they going to get their funds from abroad? What are these NGOs going to work on? They are not giving the true picture to the world. They have their own interests.\" According to Safdir, there is currently a shortage of skilled labourers so some workers are demanding a golden handshake of \u00a31,000 just to begin work at a factory. He says that for conditions to improve buyers such as the NHS will have to pay more for the products, but this extra money should be monitored to make sure that it benefits workers.", "tags": ["Science", "NHS", "Health", "Health policy", "Society", "Politics", "Pakistan", "World news", "UK news", "Child labour"], "title": "Voices from Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-08T02:16:26Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ahmed began working in a surgical instrument workshop at eight years old. \"I do not like this work, in fact I want to go to school but my father says that I should work,\" he says. Shakeel's three uncles and elder brother all work in the industry. He does all kinds of work including polishing and grinding. He and the other workers are paid on a piece rate for the instruments they make. If Shakeel works all day, he can earn about 170 rupees (\u00a31.42). The work can be dangerous because the workshop does not provide protective equipment or clothing. \"If anything breaks up, it can hit me, I need to work carefully otherwise it is very dangerous.\" Minor injuries in the workshop are common and Shakeel saw a major accident last year. \"[A worker] was operating a polisher, the stone blade broke suddenly and it hit his head and it started to bleed, other workers caught him and carried him to hospital,\" he recalls. Bhatti has been working in the industry since he was nine years old. He says it is common for workers to get into debt with their employers, for example if they have a large expenditure or if the workshop does not have many orders. \"Poor workers get into debt when they have some problem and they pay it back or it is deducted from their wages,\" he says. This can place workers in hoc to their employer and make it difficult for them to demand better conditions. He is paid a piece rate per item he makes and earns 250 to 300 rupees (\u00a32.15 to \u00a32.60) a day. Bhatti is sanguine about the risks of working in the workshop. \"Every work is dangerous,\" he says. \"We are used to it and we work very carefully.\" He has been injured \"many times\" but never seriously. \"I have seen countless workers' injuries, this is part of our work,\" he says.This information about Shakeel Ahmed and Nasir Bhatti was provided by Liaquat Javed, of BRIC Pakistan (Backwards Rehabilitation and Improvement Commission), an NGO set up in 1997 that works to improve the conditions of workers in Pakistan.Javed says conditions in the handful of large surgical instrument factories are generally good, but much of the work is done by workers in small workshops with two to 20 workers. \"The working conditions at home-based units are extremely bad and poor,\" he says. \"There are no health and safety measures and no training. The wages are nominal ... the situation is very bad but workers have no option. If they will not work how will they earn a daily living?\"These conditions are common in the industry. \"If you walk the streets you will find countless workshops where you will see a horrible situation - child labourers, workers' faces full with metal dust and noise. The children operate polishers, grinders and at many units I saw the children working with chemicals without any gloves or masks.\"Workers are not aware of their rights. They are illiterate, they have no unions and they are not allowed to make unions. Workers are deprived of education, health and justice.\"He believes that buyers such as the NHS have the most power to make changes by forcing their suppliers to take action. \"In this horrible situation, buyers can play best role if they put demands to the suppliers. So the NHS can play very positive role,\" he says.Safdir admits that working conditions in the industry could be improved, but says child labour has been almost eliminated. \"No more children are coming into this field,\" he says. \"You can hardly find any children in the industry. The big companies don't have any children.\" The International Labour Organisation's estimate of 5,800 child labourers working in surgical instrument manufacture is out of date, says Safdir, adding that the industry is working to improve conditions for the workers. \"We are regularly monitoring those workshops. We are also investing a lot of money in them for the betterment of their employees and for better working conditions.\"He accuses NGOs such as the ILO of talking up the child labour problem to obtain more charitable donations from abroad. \"The trouble with these people is that if there is no child labour in the surgical industry, how are they going to get their funds from abroad? What are these NGOs going to work on? They are not giving the true picture to the world. They have their own interests.\" According to Safdir, there is currently a shortage of skilled labourers so some workers are demanding a golden handshake of \u00a31,000 just to begin work at a factory. He says that for conditions to improve buyers such as the NHS will have to pay more for the products, but this extra money should be monitored to make sure that it benefits workers.", "tags": ["Science", "NHS", "Health", "Health policy", "Society", "Politics", "Pakistan", "World news", "UK news", "Child labour"], "title": "Voices from Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-03T12:55:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I've been meaning to write something about the ISI, but then I sat down and listened to Brother Borger, here, and acknowledged that he said everything I'd say and more, and better besides. I don't know that there's anything that can be done about the ISI. The news -- well, it isn't quite yet news; the informed speculation -- that Dick Holbrooke is under consideration as Obama's special envoy to South Asia is somewhat promising. Holbrooke did work some diplomatic miracles with the Serbs and the Croats, and at the UN in terms of getting member nations to pitch in their fair shares of dues. He is by all accounts an annoyingly persistent man, which is good.However, I do disagree with Julian on the question of whether Obama's national-security team represents a paradigm shift. He says no, because of the presences of Clinton and Gates. I say yes. The bottom line is that they'll be taking orders from a new guy at the top. Obama is not George Bush. The peoples of the world aren't going to link hands anytime soon and sing \"Imagine\" -- a song I've decided I don't really like anyway, but that's for another post -- but there will be change, and I think lots of it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-08T02:16:26Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ahmed began working in a surgical instrument workshop at eight years old. \"I do not like this work, in fact I want to go to school but my father says that I should work,\" he says. Shakeel's three uncles and elder brother all work in the industry. He does all kinds of work including polishing and grinding. He and the other workers are paid on a piece rate for the instruments they make. If Shakeel works all day, he can earn about 170 rupees (\u00a31.42). The work can be dangerous because the workshop does not provide protective equipment or clothing. \"If anything breaks up, it can hit me, I need to work carefully otherwise it is very dangerous.\" Minor injuries in the workshop are common and Shakeel saw a major accident last year. \"[A worker] was operating a polisher, the stone blade broke suddenly and it hit his head and it started to bleed, other workers caught him and carried him to hospital,\" he recalls. Bhatti has been working in the industry since he was nine years old. He says it is common for workers to get into debt with their employers, for example if they have a large expenditure or if the workshop does not have many orders. \"Poor workers get into debt when they have some problem and they pay it back or it is deducted from their wages,\" he says. This can place workers in hoc to their employer and make it difficult for them to demand better conditions. He is paid a piece rate per item he makes and earns 250 to 300 rupees (\u00a32.15 to \u00a32.60) a day. Bhatti is sanguine about the risks of working in the workshop. \"Every work is dangerous,\" he says. \"We are used to it and we work very carefully.\" He has been injured \"many times\" but never seriously. \"I have seen countless workers' injuries, this is part of our work,\" he says.This information about Shakeel Ahmed and Nasir Bhatti was provided by Liaquat Javed, of BRIC Pakistan (Backwards Rehabilitation and Improvement Commission), an NGO set up in 1997 that works to improve the conditions of workers in Pakistan.Javed says conditions in the handful of large surgical instrument factories are generally good, but much of the work is done by workers in small workshops with two to 20 workers. \"The working conditions at home-based units are extremely bad and poor,\" he says. \"There are no health and safety measures and no training. The wages are nominal ... the situation is very bad but workers have no option. If they will not work how will they earn a daily living?\"These conditions are common in the industry. \"If you walk the streets you will find countless workshops where you will see a horrible situation - child labourers, workers' faces full with metal dust and noise. The children operate polishers, grinders and at many units I saw the children working with chemicals without any gloves or masks.\"Workers are not aware of their rights. They are illiterate, they have no unions and they are not allowed to make unions. Workers are deprived of education, health and justice.\"He believes that buyers such as the NHS have the most power to make changes by forcing their suppliers to take action. \"In this horrible situation, buyers can play best role if they put demands to the suppliers. So the NHS can play very positive role,\" he says.Safdir admits that working conditions in the industry could be improved, but says child labour has been almost eliminated. \"No more children are coming into this field,\" he says. \"You can hardly find any children in the industry. The big companies don't have any children.\" The International Labour Organisation's estimate of 5,800 child labourers working in surgical instrument manufacture is out of date, says Safdir, adding that the industry is working to improve conditions for the workers. \"We are regularly monitoring those workshops. We are also investing a lot of money in them for the betterment of their employees and for better working conditions.\"He accuses NGOs such as the ILO of talking up the child labour problem to obtain more charitable donations from abroad. \"The trouble with these people is that if there is no child labour in the surgical industry, how are they going to get their funds from abroad? What are these NGOs going to work on? They are not giving the true picture to the world. They have their own interests.\" According to Safdir, there is currently a shortage of skilled labourers so some workers are demanding a golden handshake of \u00a31,000 just to begin work at a factory. He says that for conditions to improve buyers such as the NHS will have to pay more for the products, but this extra money should be monitored to make sure that it benefits workers.", "tags": ["Science", "NHS", "Health", "Health policy", "Society", "Politics", "Pakistan", "World news", "UK news", "Child labour"], "title": "Voices from Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-03T12:55:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I've been meaning to write something about the ISI, but then I sat down and listened to Brother Borger, here, and acknowledged that he said everything I'd say and more, and better besides. I don't know that there's anything that can be done about the ISI. The news -- well, it isn't quite yet news; the informed speculation -- that Dick Holbrooke is under consideration as Obama's special envoy to South Asia is somewhat promising. Holbrooke did work some diplomatic miracles with the Serbs and the Croats, and at the UN in terms of getting member nations to pitch in their fair shares of dues. He is by all accounts an annoyingly persistent man, which is good.However, I do disagree with Julian on the question of whether Obama's national-security team represents a paradigm shift. He says no, because of the presences of Clinton and Gates. I say yes. The bottom line is that they'll be taking orders from a new guy at the top. Obama is not George Bush. The peoples of the world aren't going to link hands anytime soon and sing \"Imagine\" -- a song I've decided I don't really like anyway, but that's for another post -- but there will be change, and I think lots of it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-05T10:40:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A year ago, the Musharraf regime demonstrated its actions were divorced of any moral or political consistency.Its prime directive that year was to delay democratic elections by arresting judicial and human rights activists and jailing lawyers. When the press labelled him a dictator, Musharraf censored Pakistan's television channels and sent three Daily Telegraph reporters back to England, when he misconstrued editorial's endorsement of his presidency. His record of blunders is likely to continue even now that he has stepped down from his presidential seat, but he'll never live down his brutal suppression of lawyers. Today, lawyers rallied outside the Lahore High Court on the anniversary of what stickers plastered on poles called \"the blackest day in the history of the judiciary\". It's been one year since emergency was declared, and a lawyer on the street told me about the progress: \"We're certainly not getting baton-charged or arrested anymore,\" he said. \"The whole community was taken by surprise, held hostage in their own homes based on Musharraf's whims. Today we're a little safer.\"Outside the courthouse stood a mammoth stage for Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League assembly members to give speeches. Around the stage hung huge yellow-and-white banners, with pictures of brothers Nawaz and Shabaz Sharif outnumbering those of deposed Iftikhar Chaudhry two to one. And while I was happy Nawaz Sharif was out of the country, his party's presence ensured that there would be no more public beatings of lawyers. PML-N members Tehmina Doltana, Captain Safdar, Shabaz Sharif's son Saad Sharif, and Zulfiqar Khosa all gave speeches to thousands of party workers, who clogged the roads leading up to the governor's house. I've doubtedNawaz Sharif in the past, but it's clear he's not willing to give up this support, which he campaigned on to win across Punjab. Other political parties like Imran Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaaf, and the Awami National Party were present, alongside the Students Action Committee and civil activists, the Concerned Citizens of PakistanSitting cross-legged on the street were elementary-aged schoolchildren demonstrating safely next to red-faced lawyers, chanting \"Zardari killed BB\" in Urdu outside the governor's house, where PPP member Salmaan Taseer presides. Slipping out from under a dictatorship has allowed Pakistan to provide a peaceful atmosphere for such heated ralliesBut the judiciary is still not restored, and no convincing gestures were made on the part of Nawaz Sharif between his election and today's demonstration to push the issue along. His interest in the judiciary also smacks of party bias, as the current stand-in supreme court chief, Justice Abdul Hameed Dogar, is an open Pakistan People's Party member. Recent developments show steps towards judicial independence can be achieved without needing to be tainted by partisan politicsLast week, the lawyers' judiciary movement scored a victory when one of its most-recognisable activists, Ali Ahmed Kurd, was elected as president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. Judicial activists who were under house arrest last year, like barrister Aitizaz Ahsan, were available for comment. In his words, the anniversary marks the \"start of [the] miseries of the oppressed Pakistanis\". Let's hope that burden's being lifted off our shoulders", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Slow progress in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-08T02:16:26Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ahmed began working in a surgical instrument workshop at eight years old. \"I do not like this work, in fact I want to go to school but my father says that I should work,\" he says. Shakeel's three uncles and elder brother all work in the industry. He does all kinds of work including polishing and grinding. He and the other workers are paid on a piece rate for the instruments they make. If Shakeel works all day, he can earn about 170 rupees (\u00a31.42). The work can be dangerous because the workshop does not provide protective equipment or clothing. \"If anything breaks up, it can hit me, I need to work carefully otherwise it is very dangerous.\" Minor injuries in the workshop are common and Shakeel saw a major accident last year. \"[A worker] was operating a polisher, the stone blade broke suddenly and it hit his head and it started to bleed, other workers caught him and carried him to hospital,\" he recalls. Bhatti has been working in the industry since he was nine years old. He says it is common for workers to get into debt with their employers, for example if they have a large expenditure or if the workshop does not have many orders. \"Poor workers get into debt when they have some problem and they pay it back or it is deducted from their wages,\" he says. This can place workers in hoc to their employer and make it difficult for them to demand better conditions. He is paid a piece rate per item he makes and earns 250 to 300 rupees (\u00a32.15 to \u00a32.60) a day. Bhatti is sanguine about the risks of working in the workshop. \"Every work is dangerous,\" he says. \"We are used to it and we work very carefully.\" He has been injured \"many times\" but never seriously. \"I have seen countless workers' injuries, this is part of our work,\" he says.This information about Shakeel Ahmed and Nasir Bhatti was provided by Liaquat Javed, of BRIC Pakistan (Backwards Rehabilitation and Improvement Commission), an NGO set up in 1997 that works to improve the conditions of workers in Pakistan.Javed says conditions in the handful of large surgical instrument factories are generally good, but much of the work is done by workers in small workshops with two to 20 workers. \"The working conditions at home-based units are extremely bad and poor,\" he says. \"There are no health and safety measures and no training. The wages are nominal ... the situation is very bad but workers have no option. If they will not work how will they earn a daily living?\"These conditions are common in the industry. \"If you walk the streets you will find countless workshops where you will see a horrible situation - child labourers, workers' faces full with metal dust and noise. The children operate polishers, grinders and at many units I saw the children working with chemicals without any gloves or masks.\"Workers are not aware of their rights. They are illiterate, they have no unions and they are not allowed to make unions. Workers are deprived of education, health and justice.\"He believes that buyers such as the NHS have the most power to make changes by forcing their suppliers to take action. \"In this horrible situation, buyers can play best role if they put demands to the suppliers. So the NHS can play very positive role,\" he says.Safdir admits that working conditions in the industry could be improved, but says child labour has been almost eliminated. \"No more children are coming into this field,\" he says. \"You can hardly find any children in the industry. The big companies don't have any children.\" The International Labour Organisation's estimate of 5,800 child labourers working in surgical instrument manufacture is out of date, says Safdir, adding that the industry is working to improve conditions for the workers. \"We are regularly monitoring those workshops. We are also investing a lot of money in them for the betterment of their employees and for better working conditions.\"He accuses NGOs such as the ILO of talking up the child labour problem to obtain more charitable donations from abroad. \"The trouble with these people is that if there is no child labour in the surgical industry, how are they going to get their funds from abroad? What are these NGOs going to work on? They are not giving the true picture to the world. They have their own interests.\" According to Safdir, there is currently a shortage of skilled labourers so some workers are demanding a golden handshake of \u00a31,000 just to begin work at a factory. He says that for conditions to improve buyers such as the NHS will have to pay more for the products, but this extra money should be monitored to make sure that it benefits workers.", "tags": ["Science", "NHS", "Health", "Health policy", "Society", "Politics", "Pakistan", "World news", "UK news", "Child labour"], "title": "Voices from Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-03T12:55:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I've been meaning to write something about the ISI, but then I sat down and listened to Brother Borger, here, and acknowledged that he said everything I'd say and more, and better besides. I don't know that there's anything that can be done about the ISI. The news -- well, it isn't quite yet news; the informed speculation -- that Dick Holbrooke is under consideration as Obama's special envoy to South Asia is somewhat promising. Holbrooke did work some diplomatic miracles with the Serbs and the Croats, and at the UN in terms of getting member nations to pitch in their fair shares of dues. He is by all accounts an annoyingly persistent man, which is good.However, I do disagree with Julian on the question of whether Obama's national-security team represents a paradigm shift. He says no, because of the presences of Clinton and Gates. I say yes. The bottom line is that they'll be taking orders from a new guy at the top. Obama is not George Bush. The peoples of the world aren't going to link hands anytime soon and sing \"Imagine\" -- a song I've decided I don't really like anyway, but that's for another post -- but there will be change, and I think lots of it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-05T10:40:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A year ago, the Musharraf regime demonstrated its actions were divorced of any moral or political consistency.Its prime directive that year was to delay democratic elections by arresting judicial and human rights activists and jailing lawyers. When the press labelled him a dictator, Musharraf censored Pakistan's television channels and sent three Daily Telegraph reporters back to England, when he misconstrued editorial's endorsement of his presidency. His record of blunders is likely to continue even now that he has stepped down from his presidential seat, but he'll never live down his brutal suppression of lawyers. Today, lawyers rallied outside the Lahore High Court on the anniversary of what stickers plastered on poles called \"the blackest day in the history of the judiciary\". It's been one year since emergency was declared, and a lawyer on the street told me about the progress: \"We're certainly not getting baton-charged or arrested anymore,\" he said. \"The whole community was taken by surprise, held hostage in their own homes based on Musharraf's whims. Today we're a little safer.\"Outside the courthouse stood a mammoth stage for Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League assembly members to give speeches. Around the stage hung huge yellow-and-white banners, with pictures of brothers Nawaz and Shabaz Sharif outnumbering those of deposed Iftikhar Chaudhry two to one. And while I was happy Nawaz Sharif was out of the country, his party's presence ensured that there would be no more public beatings of lawyers. PML-N members Tehmina Doltana, Captain Safdar, Shabaz Sharif's son Saad Sharif, and Zulfiqar Khosa all gave speeches to thousands of party workers, who clogged the roads leading up to the governor's house. I've doubtedNawaz Sharif in the past, but it's clear he's not willing to give up this support, which he campaigned on to win across Punjab. Other political parties like Imran Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaaf, and the Awami National Party were present, alongside the Students Action Committee and civil activists, the Concerned Citizens of PakistanSitting cross-legged on the street were elementary-aged schoolchildren demonstrating safely next to red-faced lawyers, chanting \"Zardari killed BB\" in Urdu outside the governor's house, where PPP member Salmaan Taseer presides. Slipping out from under a dictatorship has allowed Pakistan to provide a peaceful atmosphere for such heated ralliesBut the judiciary is still not restored, and no convincing gestures were made on the part of Nawaz Sharif between his election and today's demonstration to push the issue along. His interest in the judiciary also smacks of party bias, as the current stand-in supreme court chief, Justice Abdul Hameed Dogar, is an open Pakistan People's Party member. Recent developments show steps towards judicial independence can be achieved without needing to be tainted by partisan politicsLast week, the lawyers' judiciary movement scored a victory when one of its most-recognisable activists, Ali Ahmed Kurd, was elected as president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. Judicial activists who were under house arrest last year, like barrister Aitizaz Ahsan, were available for comment. In his words, the anniversary marks the \"start of [the] miseries of the oppressed Pakistanis\". Let's hope that burden's being lifted off our shoulders", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Slow progress in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-03T10:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For the past year the public in Pakistan has been incensed by daily power cuts. The past month saw unprecedented black-outs of 12 hours. Then, like a back-hand in the dark, business owners and working class alike have been slapped with a bill charging them three times the usual monthly charge for electricity. The official explanation for the price hike is that energy supply companies have began charging higher tariffs earlier than planned. Lahore Electric Supply Company officials anonymously told a reporter from Urdu daily paper Jang that they were given revenue targets to reach.\"If this is the cost, then I don't want any\" has been the general sentiments of those protesting across the country, setting fire to tyres and bills alike. But are the flaming tyres enough to up the heat on Pakistan's half-baked government, who for once will have to come up with a working solution for all four provinces. Statements from the people already demonstrate a great deal of mistrust.\"If a collections officer comes here, this area's men will not have to raise a finger, we'll tie them up and twist their necks\", one woman told me at a protest made up of one side-street's female residents. One elderly resident died of a heart attack upon receiving the bill. His neighborhood, Rasul Park Colony, held a procession and a protest in his honor.Demonstrations against over-billing occurred in both the major as well as median sized cities like Sargodha, Faislabad, Chakwal, and Nankana. Offices of Lahore Electric Supply Company have been assaulted by mobs, and an engineer was attacked in Sheikhapura. And there are likely to be more violent protests: to cope with escalating costs some industries have closed factories, with textiles losing over 100,000 jobs.So as discontent increases, a discouraging trend occurs with how the public justifies mob violence. The first protest of this sort happened last week, when a Lahore Electric Supply Company office was torched by a mob in Gujurpura, Lahore. The following day demonstrators told me they would not be afraid to attack more offices if the billing continued. They placed the onus of the blame on President Zardari.The official response from the ruling party was defensive, encouraging the public \"to have faith in the government they helped form\". Now that the government has pushed to reduce a proposed tariff hike of 60%, a reduction some credit the violence as being instrumental in achieving.One reason for this rise in Pakistani protesting culture is the involvement of opposition parties in patronising civil unrest. Under Musharraf, protests by Sindhis against the construction of the Kalabagh Dam were sponsored by the People's Party. The lawyers' movement has by and large been sponsored by money and statements by Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League. Danish Cartoon and Salman Rushdie protests are held by scattered religious parties.This intersection of political campaign and patronising protest has led to an easily agitated, violent public. When the mob burned down the LESCO office, they destroyed the records required to prove their case of over-billing. Wrecked government property is replaced with tax money. In this recent development, the Pakistani government has proven to be ineffective in educating the public to push petitions through consumer and standard courts. Other facilities, such as the Monopoly Control Authority, have been contacted in the past to resolve cement and sugar cartels. There are other avenues as well, to which the people could have appealed instead of rioting. As more jobs get cut, which is inevitable in this crisis, an effective outreach to the isolated labour class will also be necessary to curb violence. While there is a set minimum wage, the secretary of labour in Lahore claims the number of labourers registered with them is neglible. Now, time is of the essence to breath life into these projects. As it stands, the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority has stated it opposes relief in the form of lower tarrifs on electricity. Since the attacks on their assets, no officials in either NEPRA or the electric supply companies will allow themselves to appear to be giving concessions to rioters.Foreign involvement in Pakistan's development has changed as well, recent American rhetoric on Pakistan is to \"take money off the table\". Old time partner, China has made plans for nuclear power projects to be built in the country over the next 10 years. But those are some time away.Besides cleaner hydro and wind energy generation, one priority project for Pakistan could be to take advantage of its coal deposits, which are the fifth biggest in the world. There have been plans for coal factories in the past, most famously one by Hong Kong tycoon Gordon Wu. Wu's plans for a coal power plant in Tharparkar, Sindh raised $1.8bn in foreign investment. The plans were realised after the project was cleared by a joint chiefs of staff committee in 1997. The plan was canned inexplicably three months into Sharif's second term. One popular explanation for the canning has been what many call the singular development of the Punjab province, at the expense of Sindh, Balochistan, and the North West Frontier Province. Ironically, there have been demonstrations against government energy projects with the same reasoning as well. Many saw the construction of the Kalabagh Dam as a measure by the Punjab government to assert its hegemony in Sindh.The government can't afford to lose out on such projects, and at the same time can't afford to dole out the same top-down relief in the form of tariff cuts anymore. But when described as having \"No money, no energy, no government\", it's hard to think of what the government can afford to do at all. Pakistan will have to clear up the mistrust that divides it along its provinces, and the government must rethink its current rapport with the public to deal with the countrywide crises to come.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Energy", "World news"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Lights out for Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-08T02:16:26Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ahmed began working in a surgical instrument workshop at eight years old. \"I do not like this work, in fact I want to go to school but my father says that I should work,\" he says. Shakeel's three uncles and elder brother all work in the industry. He does all kinds of work including polishing and grinding. He and the other workers are paid on a piece rate for the instruments they make. If Shakeel works all day, he can earn about 170 rupees (\u00a31.42). The work can be dangerous because the workshop does not provide protective equipment or clothing. \"If anything breaks up, it can hit me, I need to work carefully otherwise it is very dangerous.\" Minor injuries in the workshop are common and Shakeel saw a major accident last year. \"[A worker] was operating a polisher, the stone blade broke suddenly and it hit his head and it started to bleed, other workers caught him and carried him to hospital,\" he recalls. Bhatti has been working in the industry since he was nine years old. He says it is common for workers to get into debt with their employers, for example if they have a large expenditure or if the workshop does not have many orders. \"Poor workers get into debt when they have some problem and they pay it back or it is deducted from their wages,\" he says. This can place workers in hoc to their employer and make it difficult for them to demand better conditions. He is paid a piece rate per item he makes and earns 250 to 300 rupees (\u00a32.15 to \u00a32.60) a day. Bhatti is sanguine about the risks of working in the workshop. \"Every work is dangerous,\" he says. \"We are used to it and we work very carefully.\" He has been injured \"many times\" but never seriously. \"I have seen countless workers' injuries, this is part of our work,\" he says.This information about Shakeel Ahmed and Nasir Bhatti was provided by Liaquat Javed, of BRIC Pakistan (Backwards Rehabilitation and Improvement Commission), an NGO set up in 1997 that works to improve the conditions of workers in Pakistan.Javed says conditions in the handful of large surgical instrument factories are generally good, but much of the work is done by workers in small workshops with two to 20 workers. \"The working conditions at home-based units are extremely bad and poor,\" he says. \"There are no health and safety measures and no training. The wages are nominal ... the situation is very bad but workers have no option. If they will not work how will they earn a daily living?\"These conditions are common in the industry. \"If you walk the streets you will find countless workshops where you will see a horrible situation - child labourers, workers' faces full with metal dust and noise. The children operate polishers, grinders and at many units I saw the children working with chemicals without any gloves or masks.\"Workers are not aware of their rights. They are illiterate, they have no unions and they are not allowed to make unions. Workers are deprived of education, health and justice.\"He believes that buyers such as the NHS have the most power to make changes by forcing their suppliers to take action. \"In this horrible situation, buyers can play best role if they put demands to the suppliers. So the NHS can play very positive role,\" he says.Safdir admits that working conditions in the industry could be improved, but says child labour has been almost eliminated. \"No more children are coming into this field,\" he says. \"You can hardly find any children in the industry. The big companies don't have any children.\" The International Labour Organisation's estimate of 5,800 child labourers working in surgical instrument manufacture is out of date, says Safdir, adding that the industry is working to improve conditions for the workers. \"We are regularly monitoring those workshops. We are also investing a lot of money in them for the betterment of their employees and for better working conditions.\"He accuses NGOs such as the ILO of talking up the child labour problem to obtain more charitable donations from abroad. \"The trouble with these people is that if there is no child labour in the surgical industry, how are they going to get their funds from abroad? What are these NGOs going to work on? They are not giving the true picture to the world. They have their own interests.\" According to Safdir, there is currently a shortage of skilled labourers so some workers are demanding a golden handshake of \u00a31,000 just to begin work at a factory. He says that for conditions to improve buyers such as the NHS will have to pay more for the products, but this extra money should be monitored to make sure that it benefits workers.", "tags": ["Science", "NHS", "Health", "Health policy", "Society", "Politics", "Pakistan", "World news", "UK news", "Child labour"], "title": "Voices from Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-03T12:55:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I've been meaning to write something about the ISI, but then I sat down and listened to Brother Borger, here, and acknowledged that he said everything I'd say and more, and better besides. I don't know that there's anything that can be done about the ISI. The news -- well, it isn't quite yet news; the informed speculation -- that Dick Holbrooke is under consideration as Obama's special envoy to South Asia is somewhat promising. Holbrooke did work some diplomatic miracles with the Serbs and the Croats, and at the UN in terms of getting member nations to pitch in their fair shares of dues. He is by all accounts an annoyingly persistent man, which is good.However, I do disagree with Julian on the question of whether Obama's national-security team represents a paradigm shift. He says no, because of the presences of Clinton and Gates. I say yes. The bottom line is that they'll be taking orders from a new guy at the top. Obama is not George Bush. The peoples of the world aren't going to link hands anytime soon and sing \"Imagine\" -- a song I've decided I don't really like anyway, but that's for another post -- but there will be change, and I think lots of it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-05T10:40:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A year ago, the Musharraf regime demonstrated its actions were divorced of any moral or political consistency.Its prime directive that year was to delay democratic elections by arresting judicial and human rights activists and jailing lawyers. When the press labelled him a dictator, Musharraf censored Pakistan's television channels and sent three Daily Telegraph reporters back to England, when he misconstrued editorial's endorsement of his presidency. His record of blunders is likely to continue even now that he has stepped down from his presidential seat, but he'll never live down his brutal suppression of lawyers. Today, lawyers rallied outside the Lahore High Court on the anniversary of what stickers plastered on poles called \"the blackest day in the history of the judiciary\". It's been one year since emergency was declared, and a lawyer on the street told me about the progress: \"We're certainly not getting baton-charged or arrested anymore,\" he said. \"The whole community was taken by surprise, held hostage in their own homes based on Musharraf's whims. Today we're a little safer.\"Outside the courthouse stood a mammoth stage for Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League assembly members to give speeches. Around the stage hung huge yellow-and-white banners, with pictures of brothers Nawaz and Shabaz Sharif outnumbering those of deposed Iftikhar Chaudhry two to one. And while I was happy Nawaz Sharif was out of the country, his party's presence ensured that there would be no more public beatings of lawyers. PML-N members Tehmina Doltana, Captain Safdar, Shabaz Sharif's son Saad Sharif, and Zulfiqar Khosa all gave speeches to thousands of party workers, who clogged the roads leading up to the governor's house. I've doubtedNawaz Sharif in the past, but it's clear he's not willing to give up this support, which he campaigned on to win across Punjab. Other political parties like Imran Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaaf, and the Awami National Party were present, alongside the Students Action Committee and civil activists, the Concerned Citizens of PakistanSitting cross-legged on the street were elementary-aged schoolchildren demonstrating safely next to red-faced lawyers, chanting \"Zardari killed BB\" in Urdu outside the governor's house, where PPP member Salmaan Taseer presides. Slipping out from under a dictatorship has allowed Pakistan to provide a peaceful atmosphere for such heated ralliesBut the judiciary is still not restored, and no convincing gestures were made on the part of Nawaz Sharif between his election and today's demonstration to push the issue along. His interest in the judiciary also smacks of party bias, as the current stand-in supreme court chief, Justice Abdul Hameed Dogar, is an open Pakistan People's Party member. Recent developments show steps towards judicial independence can be achieved without needing to be tainted by partisan politicsLast week, the lawyers' judiciary movement scored a victory when one of its most-recognisable activists, Ali Ahmed Kurd, was elected as president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. Judicial activists who were under house arrest last year, like barrister Aitizaz Ahsan, were available for comment. In his words, the anniversary marks the \"start of [the] miseries of the oppressed Pakistanis\". Let's hope that burden's being lifted off our shoulders", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Slow progress in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-03T10:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For the past year the public in Pakistan has been incensed by daily power cuts. The past month saw unprecedented black-outs of 12 hours. Then, like a back-hand in the dark, business owners and working class alike have been slapped with a bill charging them three times the usual monthly charge for electricity. The official explanation for the price hike is that energy supply companies have began charging higher tariffs earlier than planned. Lahore Electric Supply Company officials anonymously told a reporter from Urdu daily paper Jang that they were given revenue targets to reach.\"If this is the cost, then I don't want any\" has been the general sentiments of those protesting across the country, setting fire to tyres and bills alike. But are the flaming tyres enough to up the heat on Pakistan's half-baked government, who for once will have to come up with a working solution for all four provinces. Statements from the people already demonstrate a great deal of mistrust.\"If a collections officer comes here, this area's men will not have to raise a finger, we'll tie them up and twist their necks\", one woman told me at a protest made up of one side-street's female residents. One elderly resident died of a heart attack upon receiving the bill. His neighborhood, Rasul Park Colony, held a procession and a protest in his honor.Demonstrations against over-billing occurred in both the major as well as median sized cities like Sargodha, Faislabad, Chakwal, and Nankana. Offices of Lahore Electric Supply Company have been assaulted by mobs, and an engineer was attacked in Sheikhapura. And there are likely to be more violent protests: to cope with escalating costs some industries have closed factories, with textiles losing over 100,000 jobs.So as discontent increases, a discouraging trend occurs with how the public justifies mob violence. The first protest of this sort happened last week, when a Lahore Electric Supply Company office was torched by a mob in Gujurpura, Lahore. The following day demonstrators told me they would not be afraid to attack more offices if the billing continued. They placed the onus of the blame on President Zardari.The official response from the ruling party was defensive, encouraging the public \"to have faith in the government they helped form\". Now that the government has pushed to reduce a proposed tariff hike of 60%, a reduction some credit the violence as being instrumental in achieving.One reason for this rise in Pakistani protesting culture is the involvement of opposition parties in patronising civil unrest. Under Musharraf, protests by Sindhis against the construction of the Kalabagh Dam were sponsored by the People's Party. The lawyers' movement has by and large been sponsored by money and statements by Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League. Danish Cartoon and Salman Rushdie protests are held by scattered religious parties.This intersection of political campaign and patronising protest has led to an easily agitated, violent public. When the mob burned down the LESCO office, they destroyed the records required to prove their case of over-billing. Wrecked government property is replaced with tax money. In this recent development, the Pakistani government has proven to be ineffective in educating the public to push petitions through consumer and standard courts. Other facilities, such as the Monopoly Control Authority, have been contacted in the past to resolve cement and sugar cartels. There are other avenues as well, to which the people could have appealed instead of rioting. As more jobs get cut, which is inevitable in this crisis, an effective outreach to the isolated labour class will also be necessary to curb violence. While there is a set minimum wage, the secretary of labour in Lahore claims the number of labourers registered with them is neglible. Now, time is of the essence to breath life into these projects. As it stands, the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority has stated it opposes relief in the form of lower tarrifs on electricity. Since the attacks on their assets, no officials in either NEPRA or the electric supply companies will allow themselves to appear to be giving concessions to rioters.Foreign involvement in Pakistan's development has changed as well, recent American rhetoric on Pakistan is to \"take money off the table\". Old time partner, China has made plans for nuclear power projects to be built in the country over the next 10 years. But those are some time away.Besides cleaner hydro and wind energy generation, one priority project for Pakistan could be to take advantage of its coal deposits, which are the fifth biggest in the world. There have been plans for coal factories in the past, most famously one by Hong Kong tycoon Gordon Wu. Wu's plans for a coal power plant in Tharparkar, Sindh raised $1.8bn in foreign investment. The plans were realised after the project was cleared by a joint chiefs of staff committee in 1997. The plan was canned inexplicably three months into Sharif's second term. One popular explanation for the canning has been what many call the singular development of the Punjab province, at the expense of Sindh, Balochistan, and the North West Frontier Province. Ironically, there have been demonstrations against government energy projects with the same reasoning as well. Many saw the construction of the Kalabagh Dam as a measure by the Punjab government to assert its hegemony in Sindh.The government can't afford to lose out on such projects, and at the same time can't afford to dole out the same top-down relief in the form of tariff cuts anymore. But when described as having \"No money, no energy, no government\", it's hard to think of what the government can afford to do at all. Pakistan will have to clear up the mistrust that divides it along its provinces, and the government must rethink its current rapport with the public to deal with the countrywide crises to come.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Energy", "World news"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Lights out for Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-10-23T09:53:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "India and Pakistan are on divergent paths in the news today. While India looks to the future after yesterday's launch of its first unmanned moon mission, next door in Pakistan things seem to be spiralling downwards.\"Pakistan stares into the abyss\", the Independent splashes on its front page. Pressure on the army from the US to step up operations against Taliban militants in the lawless mountain region on the Afghan border has led to 200,000 people fleeing their villages, with 20,000 crossing over into Afghanistan.The deaths caused by the fighting are seen as \"collateral damage\", the paper says, in Pakistan's internal war on terror. According to a leaked letter from the former prime minister and main opposition party leader, Nawaz Sharif, Pakistan is going though \"the worst crisis of its history\".The situation in Pakistan is closely entwined with its economy, which is on the brink of collapse. The Pakistani government has been forced to ask the International Monetary Fund for an emergency $5bn bail-out after exhausting other sources, including its allies. The Guardian calculates Pakistan has seven weeks left before its foreign reserves run out and it cannot pay its debts - bankruptcy, in effect.Power cuts, rising food prices and the falling value of the rupee have led to a sense of emergency.The security issue does not look like calming any time soon, with a policy to further involve tribal militias - known as lashkars - in the offensive in the mountains.\"Pakistan plans to arm tens of thousands of anti-Taliban tribal fighters in its western border region,\" says the Washington Post, \"in hopes, shared by the US military, that the nascent militias can replicate the tribal 'awakening' movement that proved decisive in the battle against al-Qaida in Iraq.\" According to the Post, the lashkars will receive Chinese-made assault rifles and other small arms. Asif Ali Zardari, the Pakistani president, has already arranged their purchase, Pakistani officials have said.While the move has been welcomed by the US, relations between Islamabad and Washington could turn decidedly sour after news today of a missile attack by a US military drone on a suspected militant stronghold in the region, killing nine people at a religious school. The US claims the school belonged to a pro-Taliban cleric. A few hours before the attack, the Pakistani parliament passed a unanimous resolution against American military incursions on Pakistani soil.There's no doubt the threat posed by insurgents is real, as the bombing of the Marriott hotel in Islamabad demonstrated last month. But the economic situation and Pakistan's internal security are closely linked. In the Independent, Imran Khan, the former cricketer and now an opposition leader, said he saw \"no solution in sight\" either for the economic or security situation.The Pakistani foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, has warned that the west would suffer if Pakistan did not receive financial help. \"You have to wake up and realise that Pakistan is a victim,\" he told the BBC. \"Pakistan has stood by you ... if you don't stand by Pakistan you will let yourselves down.\"* Based on an extract from the Wrap, theguardian.com's digest of the day's news", "tags": ["Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan in crisis"},{"date": "2008-12-08T02:16:26Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ahmed began working in a surgical instrument workshop at eight years old. \"I do not like this work, in fact I want to go to school but my father says that I should work,\" he says. Shakeel's three uncles and elder brother all work in the industry. He does all kinds of work including polishing and grinding. He and the other workers are paid on a piece rate for the instruments they make. If Shakeel works all day, he can earn about 170 rupees (\u00a31.42). The work can be dangerous because the workshop does not provide protective equipment or clothing. \"If anything breaks up, it can hit me, I need to work carefully otherwise it is very dangerous.\" Minor injuries in the workshop are common and Shakeel saw a major accident last year. \"[A worker] was operating a polisher, the stone blade broke suddenly and it hit his head and it started to bleed, other workers caught him and carried him to hospital,\" he recalls. Bhatti has been working in the industry since he was nine years old. He says it is common for workers to get into debt with their employers, for example if they have a large expenditure or if the workshop does not have many orders. \"Poor workers get into debt when they have some problem and they pay it back or it is deducted from their wages,\" he says. This can place workers in hoc to their employer and make it difficult for them to demand better conditions. He is paid a piece rate per item he makes and earns 250 to 300 rupees (\u00a32.15 to \u00a32.60) a day. Bhatti is sanguine about the risks of working in the workshop. \"Every work is dangerous,\" he says. \"We are used to it and we work very carefully.\" He has been injured \"many times\" but never seriously. \"I have seen countless workers' injuries, this is part of our work,\" he says.This information about Shakeel Ahmed and Nasir Bhatti was provided by Liaquat Javed, of BRIC Pakistan (Backwards Rehabilitation and Improvement Commission), an NGO set up in 1997 that works to improve the conditions of workers in Pakistan.Javed says conditions in the handful of large surgical instrument factories are generally good, but much of the work is done by workers in small workshops with two to 20 workers. \"The working conditions at home-based units are extremely bad and poor,\" he says. \"There are no health and safety measures and no training. The wages are nominal ... the situation is very bad but workers have no option. If they will not work how will they earn a daily living?\"These conditions are common in the industry. \"If you walk the streets you will find countless workshops where you will see a horrible situation - child labourers, workers' faces full with metal dust and noise. The children operate polishers, grinders and at many units I saw the children working with chemicals without any gloves or masks.\"Workers are not aware of their rights. They are illiterate, they have no unions and they are not allowed to make unions. Workers are deprived of education, health and justice.\"He believes that buyers such as the NHS have the most power to make changes by forcing their suppliers to take action. \"In this horrible situation, buyers can play best role if they put demands to the suppliers. So the NHS can play very positive role,\" he says.Safdir admits that working conditions in the industry could be improved, but says child labour has been almost eliminated. \"No more children are coming into this field,\" he says. \"You can hardly find any children in the industry. The big companies don't have any children.\" The International Labour Organisation's estimate of 5,800 child labourers working in surgical instrument manufacture is out of date, says Safdir, adding that the industry is working to improve conditions for the workers. \"We are regularly monitoring those workshops. We are also investing a lot of money in them for the betterment of their employees and for better working conditions.\"He accuses NGOs such as the ILO of talking up the child labour problem to obtain more charitable donations from abroad. \"The trouble with these people is that if there is no child labour in the surgical industry, how are they going to get their funds from abroad? What are these NGOs going to work on? They are not giving the true picture to the world. They have their own interests.\" According to Safdir, there is currently a shortage of skilled labourers so some workers are demanding a golden handshake of \u00a31,000 just to begin work at a factory. He says that for conditions to improve buyers such as the NHS will have to pay more for the products, but this extra money should be monitored to make sure that it benefits workers.", "tags": ["Science", "NHS", "Health", "Health policy", "Society", "Politics", "Pakistan", "World news", "UK news", "Child labour"], "title": "Voices from Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-03T12:55:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I've been meaning to write something about the ISI, but then I sat down and listened to Brother Borger, here, and acknowledged that he said everything I'd say and more, and better besides. I don't know that there's anything that can be done about the ISI. The news -- well, it isn't quite yet news; the informed speculation -- that Dick Holbrooke is under consideration as Obama's special envoy to South Asia is somewhat promising. Holbrooke did work some diplomatic miracles with the Serbs and the Croats, and at the UN in terms of getting member nations to pitch in their fair shares of dues. He is by all accounts an annoyingly persistent man, which is good.However, I do disagree with Julian on the question of whether Obama's national-security team represents a paradigm shift. He says no, because of the presences of Clinton and Gates. I say yes. The bottom line is that they'll be taking orders from a new guy at the top. Obama is not George Bush. The peoples of the world aren't going to link hands anytime soon and sing \"Imagine\" -- a song I've decided I don't really like anyway, but that's for another post -- but there will be change, and I think lots of it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-05T10:40:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A year ago, the Musharraf regime demonstrated its actions were divorced of any moral or political consistency.Its prime directive that year was to delay democratic elections by arresting judicial and human rights activists and jailing lawyers. When the press labelled him a dictator, Musharraf censored Pakistan's television channels and sent three Daily Telegraph reporters back to England, when he misconstrued editorial's endorsement of his presidency. His record of blunders is likely to continue even now that he has stepped down from his presidential seat, but he'll never live down his brutal suppression of lawyers. Today, lawyers rallied outside the Lahore High Court on the anniversary of what stickers plastered on poles called \"the blackest day in the history of the judiciary\". It's been one year since emergency was declared, and a lawyer on the street told me about the progress: \"We're certainly not getting baton-charged or arrested anymore,\" he said. \"The whole community was taken by surprise, held hostage in their own homes based on Musharraf's whims. Today we're a little safer.\"Outside the courthouse stood a mammoth stage for Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League assembly members to give speeches. Around the stage hung huge yellow-and-white banners, with pictures of brothers Nawaz and Shabaz Sharif outnumbering those of deposed Iftikhar Chaudhry two to one. And while I was happy Nawaz Sharif was out of the country, his party's presence ensured that there would be no more public beatings of lawyers. PML-N members Tehmina Doltana, Captain Safdar, Shabaz Sharif's son Saad Sharif, and Zulfiqar Khosa all gave speeches to thousands of party workers, who clogged the roads leading up to the governor's house. I've doubtedNawaz Sharif in the past, but it's clear he's not willing to give up this support, which he campaigned on to win across Punjab. Other political parties like Imran Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaaf, and the Awami National Party were present, alongside the Students Action Committee and civil activists, the Concerned Citizens of PakistanSitting cross-legged on the street were elementary-aged schoolchildren demonstrating safely next to red-faced lawyers, chanting \"Zardari killed BB\" in Urdu outside the governor's house, where PPP member Salmaan Taseer presides. Slipping out from under a dictatorship has allowed Pakistan to provide a peaceful atmosphere for such heated ralliesBut the judiciary is still not restored, and no convincing gestures were made on the part of Nawaz Sharif between his election and today's demonstration to push the issue along. His interest in the judiciary also smacks of party bias, as the current stand-in supreme court chief, Justice Abdul Hameed Dogar, is an open Pakistan People's Party member. Recent developments show steps towards judicial independence can be achieved without needing to be tainted by partisan politicsLast week, the lawyers' judiciary movement scored a victory when one of its most-recognisable activists, Ali Ahmed Kurd, was elected as president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. Judicial activists who were under house arrest last year, like barrister Aitizaz Ahsan, were available for comment. In his words, the anniversary marks the \"start of [the] miseries of the oppressed Pakistanis\". Let's hope that burden's being lifted off our shoulders", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Slow progress in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-03T10:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For the past year the public in Pakistan has been incensed by daily power cuts. The past month saw unprecedented black-outs of 12 hours. Then, like a back-hand in the dark, business owners and working class alike have been slapped with a bill charging them three times the usual monthly charge for electricity. The official explanation for the price hike is that energy supply companies have began charging higher tariffs earlier than planned. Lahore Electric Supply Company officials anonymously told a reporter from Urdu daily paper Jang that they were given revenue targets to reach.\"If this is the cost, then I don't want any\" has been the general sentiments of those protesting across the country, setting fire to tyres and bills alike. But are the flaming tyres enough to up the heat on Pakistan's half-baked government, who for once will have to come up with a working solution for all four provinces. Statements from the people already demonstrate a great deal of mistrust.\"If a collections officer comes here, this area's men will not have to raise a finger, we'll tie them up and twist their necks\", one woman told me at a protest made up of one side-street's female residents. One elderly resident died of a heart attack upon receiving the bill. His neighborhood, Rasul Park Colony, held a procession and a protest in his honor.Demonstrations against over-billing occurred in both the major as well as median sized cities like Sargodha, Faislabad, Chakwal, and Nankana. Offices of Lahore Electric Supply Company have been assaulted by mobs, and an engineer was attacked in Sheikhapura. And there are likely to be more violent protests: to cope with escalating costs some industries have closed factories, with textiles losing over 100,000 jobs.So as discontent increases, a discouraging trend occurs with how the public justifies mob violence. The first protest of this sort happened last week, when a Lahore Electric Supply Company office was torched by a mob in Gujurpura, Lahore. The following day demonstrators told me they would not be afraid to attack more offices if the billing continued. They placed the onus of the blame on President Zardari.The official response from the ruling party was defensive, encouraging the public \"to have faith in the government they helped form\". Now that the government has pushed to reduce a proposed tariff hike of 60%, a reduction some credit the violence as being instrumental in achieving.One reason for this rise in Pakistani protesting culture is the involvement of opposition parties in patronising civil unrest. Under Musharraf, protests by Sindhis against the construction of the Kalabagh Dam were sponsored by the People's Party. The lawyers' movement has by and large been sponsored by money and statements by Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League. Danish Cartoon and Salman Rushdie protests are held by scattered religious parties.This intersection of political campaign and patronising protest has led to an easily agitated, violent public. When the mob burned down the LESCO office, they destroyed the records required to prove their case of over-billing. Wrecked government property is replaced with tax money. In this recent development, the Pakistani government has proven to be ineffective in educating the public to push petitions through consumer and standard courts. Other facilities, such as the Monopoly Control Authority, have been contacted in the past to resolve cement and sugar cartels. There are other avenues as well, to which the people could have appealed instead of rioting. As more jobs get cut, which is inevitable in this crisis, an effective outreach to the isolated labour class will also be necessary to curb violence. While there is a set minimum wage, the secretary of labour in Lahore claims the number of labourers registered with them is neglible. Now, time is of the essence to breath life into these projects. As it stands, the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority has stated it opposes relief in the form of lower tarrifs on electricity. Since the attacks on their assets, no officials in either NEPRA or the electric supply companies will allow themselves to appear to be giving concessions to rioters.Foreign involvement in Pakistan's development has changed as well, recent American rhetoric on Pakistan is to \"take money off the table\". Old time partner, China has made plans for nuclear power projects to be built in the country over the next 10 years. But those are some time away.Besides cleaner hydro and wind energy generation, one priority project for Pakistan could be to take advantage of its coal deposits, which are the fifth biggest in the world. There have been plans for coal factories in the past, most famously one by Hong Kong tycoon Gordon Wu. Wu's plans for a coal power plant in Tharparkar, Sindh raised $1.8bn in foreign investment. The plans were realised after the project was cleared by a joint chiefs of staff committee in 1997. The plan was canned inexplicably three months into Sharif's second term. One popular explanation for the canning has been what many call the singular development of the Punjab province, at the expense of Sindh, Balochistan, and the North West Frontier Province. Ironically, there have been demonstrations against government energy projects with the same reasoning as well. Many saw the construction of the Kalabagh Dam as a measure by the Punjab government to assert its hegemony in Sindh.The government can't afford to lose out on such projects, and at the same time can't afford to dole out the same top-down relief in the form of tariff cuts anymore. But when described as having \"No money, no energy, no government\", it's hard to think of what the government can afford to do at all. Pakistan will have to clear up the mistrust that divides it along its provinces, and the government must rethink its current rapport with the public to deal with the countrywide crises to come.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Energy", "World news"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Lights out for Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-10-23T09:53:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "India and Pakistan are on divergent paths in the news today. While India looks to the future after yesterday's launch of its first unmanned moon mission, next door in Pakistan things seem to be spiralling downwards.\"Pakistan stares into the abyss\", the Independent splashes on its front page. Pressure on the army from the US to step up operations against Taliban militants in the lawless mountain region on the Afghan border has led to 200,000 people fleeing their villages, with 20,000 crossing over into Afghanistan.The deaths caused by the fighting are seen as \"collateral damage\", the paper says, in Pakistan's internal war on terror. According to a leaked letter from the former prime minister and main opposition party leader, Nawaz Sharif, Pakistan is going though \"the worst crisis of its history\".The situation in Pakistan is closely entwined with its economy, which is on the brink of collapse. The Pakistani government has been forced to ask the International Monetary Fund for an emergency $5bn bail-out after exhausting other sources, including its allies. The Guardian calculates Pakistan has seven weeks left before its foreign reserves run out and it cannot pay its debts - bankruptcy, in effect.Power cuts, rising food prices and the falling value of the rupee have led to a sense of emergency.The security issue does not look like calming any time soon, with a policy to further involve tribal militias - known as lashkars - in the offensive in the mountains.\"Pakistan plans to arm tens of thousands of anti-Taliban tribal fighters in its western border region,\" says the Washington Post, \"in hopes, shared by the US military, that the nascent militias can replicate the tribal 'awakening' movement that proved decisive in the battle against al-Qaida in Iraq.\" According to the Post, the lashkars will receive Chinese-made assault rifles and other small arms. Asif Ali Zardari, the Pakistani president, has already arranged their purchase, Pakistani officials have said.While the move has been welcomed by the US, relations between Islamabad and Washington could turn decidedly sour after news today of a missile attack by a US military drone on a suspected militant stronghold in the region, killing nine people at a religious school. The US claims the school belonged to a pro-Taliban cleric. A few hours before the attack, the Pakistani parliament passed a unanimous resolution against American military incursions on Pakistani soil.There's no doubt the threat posed by insurgents is real, as the bombing of the Marriott hotel in Islamabad demonstrated last month. But the economic situation and Pakistan's internal security are closely linked. In the Independent, Imran Khan, the former cricketer and now an opposition leader, said he saw \"no solution in sight\" either for the economic or security situation.The Pakistani foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, has warned that the west would suffer if Pakistan did not receive financial help. \"You have to wake up and realise that Pakistan is a victim,\" he told the BBC. \"Pakistan has stood by you ... if you don't stand by Pakistan you will let yourselves down.\"* Based on an extract from the Wrap, theguardian.com's digest of the day's news", "tags": ["Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan in crisis"},{"date": "2008-10-23T07:17:27Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two Pakistani journalists were slightly injured when a bomb went off outside the offices of local newspapers in Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan. The offices of five daily newspapers - Awam, Atemad, Intekhab, Public and Tijarat - were damaged. Once again, the president All Pakistan Newspapers Society has criticised the government for failing to giving adequate protection to journalists, who are being persistently harassed and threatened. (Via Pakistan Press Foundation)", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Media"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Five Pakistani papers hit by bombing"},{"date": "2008-12-08T02:16:26Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ahmed began working in a surgical instrument workshop at eight years old. \"I do not like this work, in fact I want to go to school but my father says that I should work,\" he says. Shakeel's three uncles and elder brother all work in the industry. He does all kinds of work including polishing and grinding. He and the other workers are paid on a piece rate for the instruments they make. If Shakeel works all day, he can earn about 170 rupees (\u00a31.42). The work can be dangerous because the workshop does not provide protective equipment or clothing. \"If anything breaks up, it can hit me, I need to work carefully otherwise it is very dangerous.\" Minor injuries in the workshop are common and Shakeel saw a major accident last year. \"[A worker] was operating a polisher, the stone blade broke suddenly and it hit his head and it started to bleed, other workers caught him and carried him to hospital,\" he recalls. Bhatti has been working in the industry since he was nine years old. He says it is common for workers to get into debt with their employers, for example if they have a large expenditure or if the workshop does not have many orders. \"Poor workers get into debt when they have some problem and they pay it back or it is deducted from their wages,\" he says. This can place workers in hoc to their employer and make it difficult for them to demand better conditions. He is paid a piece rate per item he makes and earns 250 to 300 rupees (\u00a32.15 to \u00a32.60) a day. Bhatti is sanguine about the risks of working in the workshop. \"Every work is dangerous,\" he says. \"We are used to it and we work very carefully.\" He has been injured \"many times\" but never seriously. \"I have seen countless workers' injuries, this is part of our work,\" he says.This information about Shakeel Ahmed and Nasir Bhatti was provided by Liaquat Javed, of BRIC Pakistan (Backwards Rehabilitation and Improvement Commission), an NGO set up in 1997 that works to improve the conditions of workers in Pakistan.Javed says conditions in the handful of large surgical instrument factories are generally good, but much of the work is done by workers in small workshops with two to 20 workers. \"The working conditions at home-based units are extremely bad and poor,\" he says. \"There are no health and safety measures and no training. The wages are nominal ... the situation is very bad but workers have no option. If they will not work how will they earn a daily living?\"These conditions are common in the industry. \"If you walk the streets you will find countless workshops where you will see a horrible situation - child labourers, workers' faces full with metal dust and noise. The children operate polishers, grinders and at many units I saw the children working with chemicals without any gloves or masks.\"Workers are not aware of their rights. They are illiterate, they have no unions and they are not allowed to make unions. Workers are deprived of education, health and justice.\"He believes that buyers such as the NHS have the most power to make changes by forcing their suppliers to take action. \"In this horrible situation, buyers can play best role if they put demands to the suppliers. So the NHS can play very positive role,\" he says.Safdir admits that working conditions in the industry could be improved, but says child labour has been almost eliminated. \"No more children are coming into this field,\" he says. \"You can hardly find any children in the industry. The big companies don't have any children.\" The International Labour Organisation's estimate of 5,800 child labourers working in surgical instrument manufacture is out of date, says Safdir, adding that the industry is working to improve conditions for the workers. \"We are regularly monitoring those workshops. We are also investing a lot of money in them for the betterment of their employees and for better working conditions.\"He accuses NGOs such as the ILO of talking up the child labour problem to obtain more charitable donations from abroad. \"The trouble with these people is that if there is no child labour in the surgical industry, how are they going to get their funds from abroad? What are these NGOs going to work on? They are not giving the true picture to the world. They have their own interests.\" According to Safdir, there is currently a shortage of skilled labourers so some workers are demanding a golden handshake of \u00a31,000 just to begin work at a factory. He says that for conditions to improve buyers such as the NHS will have to pay more for the products, but this extra money should be monitored to make sure that it benefits workers.", "tags": ["Science", "NHS", "Health", "Health policy", "Society", "Politics", "Pakistan", "World news", "UK news", "Child labour"], "title": "Voices from Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-03T12:55:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I've been meaning to write something about the ISI, but then I sat down and listened to Brother Borger, here, and acknowledged that he said everything I'd say and more, and better besides. I don't know that there's anything that can be done about the ISI. The news -- well, it isn't quite yet news; the informed speculation -- that Dick Holbrooke is under consideration as Obama's special envoy to South Asia is somewhat promising. Holbrooke did work some diplomatic miracles with the Serbs and the Croats, and at the UN in terms of getting member nations to pitch in their fair shares of dues. He is by all accounts an annoyingly persistent man, which is good.However, I do disagree with Julian on the question of whether Obama's national-security team represents a paradigm shift. He says no, because of the presences of Clinton and Gates. I say yes. The bottom line is that they'll be taking orders from a new guy at the top. Obama is not George Bush. The peoples of the world aren't going to link hands anytime soon and sing \"Imagine\" -- a song I've decided I don't really like anyway, but that's for another post -- but there will be change, and I think lots of it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-05T10:40:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A year ago, the Musharraf regime demonstrated its actions were divorced of any moral or political consistency.Its prime directive that year was to delay democratic elections by arresting judicial and human rights activists and jailing lawyers. When the press labelled him a dictator, Musharraf censored Pakistan's television channels and sent three Daily Telegraph reporters back to England, when he misconstrued editorial's endorsement of his presidency. His record of blunders is likely to continue even now that he has stepped down from his presidential seat, but he'll never live down his brutal suppression of lawyers. Today, lawyers rallied outside the Lahore High Court on the anniversary of what stickers plastered on poles called \"the blackest day in the history of the judiciary\". It's been one year since emergency was declared, and a lawyer on the street told me about the progress: \"We're certainly not getting baton-charged or arrested anymore,\" he said. \"The whole community was taken by surprise, held hostage in their own homes based on Musharraf's whims. Today we're a little safer.\"Outside the courthouse stood a mammoth stage for Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League assembly members to give speeches. Around the stage hung huge yellow-and-white banners, with pictures of brothers Nawaz and Shabaz Sharif outnumbering those of deposed Iftikhar Chaudhry two to one. And while I was happy Nawaz Sharif was out of the country, his party's presence ensured that there would be no more public beatings of lawyers. PML-N members Tehmina Doltana, Captain Safdar, Shabaz Sharif's son Saad Sharif, and Zulfiqar Khosa all gave speeches to thousands of party workers, who clogged the roads leading up to the governor's house. I've doubtedNawaz Sharif in the past, but it's clear he's not willing to give up this support, which he campaigned on to win across Punjab. Other political parties like Imran Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaaf, and the Awami National Party were present, alongside the Students Action Committee and civil activists, the Concerned Citizens of PakistanSitting cross-legged on the street were elementary-aged schoolchildren demonstrating safely next to red-faced lawyers, chanting \"Zardari killed BB\" in Urdu outside the governor's house, where PPP member Salmaan Taseer presides. Slipping out from under a dictatorship has allowed Pakistan to provide a peaceful atmosphere for such heated ralliesBut the judiciary is still not restored, and no convincing gestures were made on the part of Nawaz Sharif between his election and today's demonstration to push the issue along. His interest in the judiciary also smacks of party bias, as the current stand-in supreme court chief, Justice Abdul Hameed Dogar, is an open Pakistan People's Party member. Recent developments show steps towards judicial independence can be achieved without needing to be tainted by partisan politicsLast week, the lawyers' judiciary movement scored a victory when one of its most-recognisable activists, Ali Ahmed Kurd, was elected as president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. Judicial activists who were under house arrest last year, like barrister Aitizaz Ahsan, were available for comment. In his words, the anniversary marks the \"start of [the] miseries of the oppressed Pakistanis\". Let's hope that burden's being lifted off our shoulders", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Slow progress in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-03T10:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For the past year the public in Pakistan has been incensed by daily power cuts. The past month saw unprecedented black-outs of 12 hours. Then, like a back-hand in the dark, business owners and working class alike have been slapped with a bill charging them three times the usual monthly charge for electricity. The official explanation for the price hike is that energy supply companies have began charging higher tariffs earlier than planned. Lahore Electric Supply Company officials anonymously told a reporter from Urdu daily paper Jang that they were given revenue targets to reach.\"If this is the cost, then I don't want any\" has been the general sentiments of those protesting across the country, setting fire to tyres and bills alike. But are the flaming tyres enough to up the heat on Pakistan's half-baked government, who for once will have to come up with a working solution for all four provinces. Statements from the people already demonstrate a great deal of mistrust.\"If a collections officer comes here, this area's men will not have to raise a finger, we'll tie them up and twist their necks\", one woman told me at a protest made up of one side-street's female residents. One elderly resident died of a heart attack upon receiving the bill. His neighborhood, Rasul Park Colony, held a procession and a protest in his honor.Demonstrations against over-billing occurred in both the major as well as median sized cities like Sargodha, Faislabad, Chakwal, and Nankana. Offices of Lahore Electric Supply Company have been assaulted by mobs, and an engineer was attacked in Sheikhapura. And there are likely to be more violent protests: to cope with escalating costs some industries have closed factories, with textiles losing over 100,000 jobs.So as discontent increases, a discouraging trend occurs with how the public justifies mob violence. The first protest of this sort happened last week, when a Lahore Electric Supply Company office was torched by a mob in Gujurpura, Lahore. The following day demonstrators told me they would not be afraid to attack more offices if the billing continued. They placed the onus of the blame on President Zardari.The official response from the ruling party was defensive, encouraging the public \"to have faith in the government they helped form\". Now that the government has pushed to reduce a proposed tariff hike of 60%, a reduction some credit the violence as being instrumental in achieving.One reason for this rise in Pakistani protesting culture is the involvement of opposition parties in patronising civil unrest. Under Musharraf, protests by Sindhis against the construction of the Kalabagh Dam were sponsored by the People's Party. The lawyers' movement has by and large been sponsored by money and statements by Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League. Danish Cartoon and Salman Rushdie protests are held by scattered religious parties.This intersection of political campaign and patronising protest has led to an easily agitated, violent public. When the mob burned down the LESCO office, they destroyed the records required to prove their case of over-billing. Wrecked government property is replaced with tax money. In this recent development, the Pakistani government has proven to be ineffective in educating the public to push petitions through consumer and standard courts. Other facilities, such as the Monopoly Control Authority, have been contacted in the past to resolve cement and sugar cartels. There are other avenues as well, to which the people could have appealed instead of rioting. As more jobs get cut, which is inevitable in this crisis, an effective outreach to the isolated labour class will also be necessary to curb violence. While there is a set minimum wage, the secretary of labour in Lahore claims the number of labourers registered with them is neglible. Now, time is of the essence to breath life into these projects. As it stands, the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority has stated it opposes relief in the form of lower tarrifs on electricity. Since the attacks on their assets, no officials in either NEPRA or the electric supply companies will allow themselves to appear to be giving concessions to rioters.Foreign involvement in Pakistan's development has changed as well, recent American rhetoric on Pakistan is to \"take money off the table\". Old time partner, China has made plans for nuclear power projects to be built in the country over the next 10 years. But those are some time away.Besides cleaner hydro and wind energy generation, one priority project for Pakistan could be to take advantage of its coal deposits, which are the fifth biggest in the world. There have been plans for coal factories in the past, most famously one by Hong Kong tycoon Gordon Wu. Wu's plans for a coal power plant in Tharparkar, Sindh raised $1.8bn in foreign investment. The plans were realised after the project was cleared by a joint chiefs of staff committee in 1997. The plan was canned inexplicably three months into Sharif's second term. One popular explanation for the canning has been what many call the singular development of the Punjab province, at the expense of Sindh, Balochistan, and the North West Frontier Province. Ironically, there have been demonstrations against government energy projects with the same reasoning as well. Many saw the construction of the Kalabagh Dam as a measure by the Punjab government to assert its hegemony in Sindh.The government can't afford to lose out on such projects, and at the same time can't afford to dole out the same top-down relief in the form of tariff cuts anymore. But when described as having \"No money, no energy, no government\", it's hard to think of what the government can afford to do at all. Pakistan will have to clear up the mistrust that divides it along its provinces, and the government must rethink its current rapport with the public to deal with the countrywide crises to come.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Energy", "World news"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Lights out for Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-10-23T09:53:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "India and Pakistan are on divergent paths in the news today. While India looks to the future after yesterday's launch of its first unmanned moon mission, next door in Pakistan things seem to be spiralling downwards.\"Pakistan stares into the abyss\", the Independent splashes on its front page. Pressure on the army from the US to step up operations against Taliban militants in the lawless mountain region on the Afghan border has led to 200,000 people fleeing their villages, with 20,000 crossing over into Afghanistan.The deaths caused by the fighting are seen as \"collateral damage\", the paper says, in Pakistan's internal war on terror. According to a leaked letter from the former prime minister and main opposition party leader, Nawaz Sharif, Pakistan is going though \"the worst crisis of its history\".The situation in Pakistan is closely entwined with its economy, which is on the brink of collapse. The Pakistani government has been forced to ask the International Monetary Fund for an emergency $5bn bail-out after exhausting other sources, including its allies. The Guardian calculates Pakistan has seven weeks left before its foreign reserves run out and it cannot pay its debts - bankruptcy, in effect.Power cuts, rising food prices and the falling value of the rupee have led to a sense of emergency.The security issue does not look like calming any time soon, with a policy to further involve tribal militias - known as lashkars - in the offensive in the mountains.\"Pakistan plans to arm tens of thousands of anti-Taliban tribal fighters in its western border region,\" says the Washington Post, \"in hopes, shared by the US military, that the nascent militias can replicate the tribal 'awakening' movement that proved decisive in the battle against al-Qaida in Iraq.\" According to the Post, the lashkars will receive Chinese-made assault rifles and other small arms. Asif Ali Zardari, the Pakistani president, has already arranged their purchase, Pakistani officials have said.While the move has been welcomed by the US, relations between Islamabad and Washington could turn decidedly sour after news today of a missile attack by a US military drone on a suspected militant stronghold in the region, killing nine people at a religious school. The US claims the school belonged to a pro-Taliban cleric. A few hours before the attack, the Pakistani parliament passed a unanimous resolution against American military incursions on Pakistani soil.There's no doubt the threat posed by insurgents is real, as the bombing of the Marriott hotel in Islamabad demonstrated last month. But the economic situation and Pakistan's internal security are closely linked. In the Independent, Imran Khan, the former cricketer and now an opposition leader, said he saw \"no solution in sight\" either for the economic or security situation.The Pakistani foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, has warned that the west would suffer if Pakistan did not receive financial help. \"You have to wake up and realise that Pakistan is a victim,\" he told the BBC. \"Pakistan has stood by you ... if you don't stand by Pakistan you will let yourselves down.\"* Based on an extract from the Wrap, theguardian.com's digest of the day's news", "tags": ["Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan in crisis"},{"date": "2008-10-23T07:17:27Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two Pakistani journalists were slightly injured when a bomb went off outside the offices of local newspapers in Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan. The offices of five daily newspapers - Awam, Atemad, Intekhab, Public and Tijarat - were damaged. Once again, the president All Pakistan Newspapers Society has criticised the government for failing to giving adequate protection to journalists, who are being persistently harassed and threatened. (Via Pakistan Press Foundation)", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Media"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Five Pakistani papers hit by bombing"},{"date": "2008-10-21T09:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "After Israelis and Americans, Indians are probably among the least welcome people in Pakistan. Nevertheless, a fortnight ago I crossed over the border from Amritsar to Lahore for the first time to visit the land of (half) my ancestors. While angry rhetoric between the two nuclear-armed neighbours has calmed down significantly over the past decade, some flashpoints such as Kashmir and water disputes still remain, making the local politics still difficult.Pakistan is still on edge, this time primarily from terrorist bombings from Taliban elements that rock the nation almost daily. During my first full day in Karachi, three suicide attacks took place, one blowing up the anti-terrorism taskforce building.Last week, both British and American generals said we needed more troops in Afghanistan to turn the country around. But this ignores the deeper problem \u2013 to win in Afghanistan, first the battle for Pakistan must be won. And right now that's not looking too good.The pessimist's view is convincing: the Taliban have turned on their former masters; people are increasingly angry with US military incursions; the country's finances are very precarious; its politicians remain unpopular and are unlikely to resolve this mess. Furthermore, Afghan volatility is hurting Pakistan, as immigrants, guns and drugs flow over the borders with little to check them.The optimist's view is that Pakistan has been through much worse in its past and still managed to pull through. Already there are growing efforts to challenge each of these problems. When I told the rickshaw driver at the border I was of Indian origin, he only smiled and asked if I wouldn't mind giving him a souvenir from there. And he refused to take any money. Pakistan has a knack for surprises.Last year, a British born and trained journalist of Pakistani origin, Waseem Mahmood, got together a bunch of well-known Pakistani actors and singers to compose a song against terrorism titled Yeh Hum Naheen (This is not us). It quickly became a sensation and inspired a petition against terrorism launched earlier this year that enlisted the help of over 9,000 volunteers to gather over 60 million signatures from across the country. It is being entered into the Guinness Books of Records as the biggest petition ever.Such efforts usually pass under the notice of mainstream media across the world, because the only story out of Pakistan is usually a negative one involving terrorist camps. While there may be some truth to this, less attention is paid to how Pakistanis themselves are trying to deal with the issue.The government recently unveiled an ad campaign stating: \"Terrorists are the enemies of Islam, Pakistan and our people.\" A media organisation \u2013 the Jang Group \u2013 has even launched it own anti-terrorism campaign. Nevertheless, Pakistanis feel helpless because they have little faith in their political leaders and the army has lost much credibility in recent years under General Musharraf. Locally organised lashkars (armies) and jirgas (gatherings) of tribal leaders against the Taliban have been viciously attacked. But, encouragingly, the debate in Pakistan on extremism and terrorism is rapidly following the trajectory of developments here in Britain.The first phase is denial. Both in the UK and Pakistan, Muslims blamed Americans for the existence of terrorism. If we pull out of Iraq and Afghanistan, everything will be fine, the thinking went.But this ignores a deeper problem: why are people choosing to blow up themselves and innocent people as a form of political protest? The existence of suicide terrorism is a problem in itself. Unsurprisingly, the first phase of Mahmood's campaign focuses on owning the issue: Terrorism is our problem and we have to deal with it. Similarly, in the UK, the discussion of terrorism among British Muslims has moved on from blaming others for the problem to owning the issue.And then what? \"There's too many people sitting around producing reports on what the problem is, and not enough people trying to deal with the problem of terrorism,\" Mahmood says. Accordingly, they now focus on getting Pakistanis to talk about terrorism at home, at school and more openly.Talking about extremism out in the open in local communities is more difficult, but is the only way to start a system of detection and prevention. The YHN campaign is ahead of the curve because the rest of Pakistani society has not yet accepted that if you give an inch to religious terrorists they will take a mile. The Taliban have no qualms about blowing up innocent Muslims across Pakistan and trying to destabilise the country \u2013 their aims are political, not religious. Here lies the solution too. Pakistanis are intensely nationalist people, born out of the uncertain nature of the partition and always feeling threatened by their larger neighbour. But as the Taliban becomes a bigger threat to national security rather than India, public opinion will slowly but surely move against them.But as one prominent media executive said under the condition of anonymity, it may take a few more big blasts like the Marriott before Pakistanis realise the true nature of the Taliban. And then a new direction will surely have to be found. As the country's celebrated Urdu poet Faiz Ahmed Faiz once said, the danger is that Pakistan will continue as it has always done.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Sunny Hundal: Pakistan's government and civilian groups are attempting to show the true nature of the Taliban"},{"date": "2008-12-08T02:16:26Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ahmed began working in a surgical instrument workshop at eight years old. \"I do not like this work, in fact I want to go to school but my father says that I should work,\" he says. Shakeel's three uncles and elder brother all work in the industry. He does all kinds of work including polishing and grinding. He and the other workers are paid on a piece rate for the instruments they make. If Shakeel works all day, he can earn about 170 rupees (\u00a31.42). The work can be dangerous because the workshop does not provide protective equipment or clothing. \"If anything breaks up, it can hit me, I need to work carefully otherwise it is very dangerous.\" Minor injuries in the workshop are common and Shakeel saw a major accident last year. \"[A worker] was operating a polisher, the stone blade broke suddenly and it hit his head and it started to bleed, other workers caught him and carried him to hospital,\" he recalls. Bhatti has been working in the industry since he was nine years old. He says it is common for workers to get into debt with their employers, for example if they have a large expenditure or if the workshop does not have many orders. \"Poor workers get into debt when they have some problem and they pay it back or it is deducted from their wages,\" he says. This can place workers in hoc to their employer and make it difficult for them to demand better conditions. He is paid a piece rate per item he makes and earns 250 to 300 rupees (\u00a32.15 to \u00a32.60) a day. Bhatti is sanguine about the risks of working in the workshop. \"Every work is dangerous,\" he says. \"We are used to it and we work very carefully.\" He has been injured \"many times\" but never seriously. \"I have seen countless workers' injuries, this is part of our work,\" he says.This information about Shakeel Ahmed and Nasir Bhatti was provided by Liaquat Javed, of BRIC Pakistan (Backwards Rehabilitation and Improvement Commission), an NGO set up in 1997 that works to improve the conditions of workers in Pakistan.Javed says conditions in the handful of large surgical instrument factories are generally good, but much of the work is done by workers in small workshops with two to 20 workers. \"The working conditions at home-based units are extremely bad and poor,\" he says. \"There are no health and safety measures and no training. The wages are nominal ... the situation is very bad but workers have no option. If they will not work how will they earn a daily living?\"These conditions are common in the industry. \"If you walk the streets you will find countless workshops where you will see a horrible situation - child labourers, workers' faces full with metal dust and noise. The children operate polishers, grinders and at many units I saw the children working with chemicals without any gloves or masks.\"Workers are not aware of their rights. They are illiterate, they have no unions and they are not allowed to make unions. Workers are deprived of education, health and justice.\"He believes that buyers such as the NHS have the most power to make changes by forcing their suppliers to take action. \"In this horrible situation, buyers can play best role if they put demands to the suppliers. So the NHS can play very positive role,\" he says.Safdir admits that working conditions in the industry could be improved, but says child labour has been almost eliminated. \"No more children are coming into this field,\" he says. \"You can hardly find any children in the industry. The big companies don't have any children.\" The International Labour Organisation's estimate of 5,800 child labourers working in surgical instrument manufacture is out of date, says Safdir, adding that the industry is working to improve conditions for the workers. \"We are regularly monitoring those workshops. We are also investing a lot of money in them for the betterment of their employees and for better working conditions.\"He accuses NGOs such as the ILO of talking up the child labour problem to obtain more charitable donations from abroad. \"The trouble with these people is that if there is no child labour in the surgical industry, how are they going to get their funds from abroad? What are these NGOs going to work on? They are not giving the true picture to the world. They have their own interests.\" According to Safdir, there is currently a shortage of skilled labourers so some workers are demanding a golden handshake of \u00a31,000 just to begin work at a factory. He says that for conditions to improve buyers such as the NHS will have to pay more for the products, but this extra money should be monitored to make sure that it benefits workers.", "tags": ["Science", "NHS", "Health", "Health policy", "Society", "Politics", "Pakistan", "World news", "UK news", "Child labour"], "title": "Voices from Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-03T12:55:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I've been meaning to write something about the ISI, but then I sat down and listened to Brother Borger, here, and acknowledged that he said everything I'd say and more, and better besides. I don't know that there's anything that can be done about the ISI. The news -- well, it isn't quite yet news; the informed speculation -- that Dick Holbrooke is under consideration as Obama's special envoy to South Asia is somewhat promising. Holbrooke did work some diplomatic miracles with the Serbs and the Croats, and at the UN in terms of getting member nations to pitch in their fair shares of dues. He is by all accounts an annoyingly persistent man, which is good.However, I do disagree with Julian on the question of whether Obama's national-security team represents a paradigm shift. He says no, because of the presences of Clinton and Gates. I say yes. The bottom line is that they'll be taking orders from a new guy at the top. Obama is not George Bush. The peoples of the world aren't going to link hands anytime soon and sing \"Imagine\" -- a song I've decided I don't really like anyway, but that's for another post -- but there will be change, and I think lots of it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-05T10:40:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A year ago, the Musharraf regime demonstrated its actions were divorced of any moral or political consistency.Its prime directive that year was to delay democratic elections by arresting judicial and human rights activists and jailing lawyers. When the press labelled him a dictator, Musharraf censored Pakistan's television channels and sent three Daily Telegraph reporters back to England, when he misconstrued editorial's endorsement of his presidency. His record of blunders is likely to continue even now that he has stepped down from his presidential seat, but he'll never live down his brutal suppression of lawyers. Today, lawyers rallied outside the Lahore High Court on the anniversary of what stickers plastered on poles called \"the blackest day in the history of the judiciary\". It's been one year since emergency was declared, and a lawyer on the street told me about the progress: \"We're certainly not getting baton-charged or arrested anymore,\" he said. \"The whole community was taken by surprise, held hostage in their own homes based on Musharraf's whims. Today we're a little safer.\"Outside the courthouse stood a mammoth stage for Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League assembly members to give speeches. Around the stage hung huge yellow-and-white banners, with pictures of brothers Nawaz and Shabaz Sharif outnumbering those of deposed Iftikhar Chaudhry two to one. And while I was happy Nawaz Sharif was out of the country, his party's presence ensured that there would be no more public beatings of lawyers. PML-N members Tehmina Doltana, Captain Safdar, Shabaz Sharif's son Saad Sharif, and Zulfiqar Khosa all gave speeches to thousands of party workers, who clogged the roads leading up to the governor's house. I've doubtedNawaz Sharif in the past, but it's clear he's not willing to give up this support, which he campaigned on to win across Punjab. Other political parties like Imran Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaaf, and the Awami National Party were present, alongside the Students Action Committee and civil activists, the Concerned Citizens of PakistanSitting cross-legged on the street were elementary-aged schoolchildren demonstrating safely next to red-faced lawyers, chanting \"Zardari killed BB\" in Urdu outside the governor's house, where PPP member Salmaan Taseer presides. Slipping out from under a dictatorship has allowed Pakistan to provide a peaceful atmosphere for such heated ralliesBut the judiciary is still not restored, and no convincing gestures were made on the part of Nawaz Sharif between his election and today's demonstration to push the issue along. His interest in the judiciary also smacks of party bias, as the current stand-in supreme court chief, Justice Abdul Hameed Dogar, is an open Pakistan People's Party member. Recent developments show steps towards judicial independence can be achieved without needing to be tainted by partisan politicsLast week, the lawyers' judiciary movement scored a victory when one of its most-recognisable activists, Ali Ahmed Kurd, was elected as president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. Judicial activists who were under house arrest last year, like barrister Aitizaz Ahsan, were available for comment. In his words, the anniversary marks the \"start of [the] miseries of the oppressed Pakistanis\". Let's hope that burden's being lifted off our shoulders", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Slow progress in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-03T10:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For the past year the public in Pakistan has been incensed by daily power cuts. The past month saw unprecedented black-outs of 12 hours. Then, like a back-hand in the dark, business owners and working class alike have been slapped with a bill charging them three times the usual monthly charge for electricity. The official explanation for the price hike is that energy supply companies have began charging higher tariffs earlier than planned. Lahore Electric Supply Company officials anonymously told a reporter from Urdu daily paper Jang that they were given revenue targets to reach.\"If this is the cost, then I don't want any\" has been the general sentiments of those protesting across the country, setting fire to tyres and bills alike. But are the flaming tyres enough to up the heat on Pakistan's half-baked government, who for once will have to come up with a working solution for all four provinces. Statements from the people already demonstrate a great deal of mistrust.\"If a collections officer comes here, this area's men will not have to raise a finger, we'll tie them up and twist their necks\", one woman told me at a protest made up of one side-street's female residents. One elderly resident died of a heart attack upon receiving the bill. His neighborhood, Rasul Park Colony, held a procession and a protest in his honor.Demonstrations against over-billing occurred in both the major as well as median sized cities like Sargodha, Faislabad, Chakwal, and Nankana. Offices of Lahore Electric Supply Company have been assaulted by mobs, and an engineer was attacked in Sheikhapura. And there are likely to be more violent protests: to cope with escalating costs some industries have closed factories, with textiles losing over 100,000 jobs.So as discontent increases, a discouraging trend occurs with how the public justifies mob violence. The first protest of this sort happened last week, when a Lahore Electric Supply Company office was torched by a mob in Gujurpura, Lahore. The following day demonstrators told me they would not be afraid to attack more offices if the billing continued. They placed the onus of the blame on President Zardari.The official response from the ruling party was defensive, encouraging the public \"to have faith in the government they helped form\". Now that the government has pushed to reduce a proposed tariff hike of 60%, a reduction some credit the violence as being instrumental in achieving.One reason for this rise in Pakistani protesting culture is the involvement of opposition parties in patronising civil unrest. Under Musharraf, protests by Sindhis against the construction of the Kalabagh Dam were sponsored by the People's Party. The lawyers' movement has by and large been sponsored by money and statements by Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League. Danish Cartoon and Salman Rushdie protests are held by scattered religious parties.This intersection of political campaign and patronising protest has led to an easily agitated, violent public. When the mob burned down the LESCO office, they destroyed the records required to prove their case of over-billing. Wrecked government property is replaced with tax money. In this recent development, the Pakistani government has proven to be ineffective in educating the public to push petitions through consumer and standard courts. Other facilities, such as the Monopoly Control Authority, have been contacted in the past to resolve cement and sugar cartels. There are other avenues as well, to which the people could have appealed instead of rioting. As more jobs get cut, which is inevitable in this crisis, an effective outreach to the isolated labour class will also be necessary to curb violence. While there is a set minimum wage, the secretary of labour in Lahore claims the number of labourers registered with them is neglible. Now, time is of the essence to breath life into these projects. As it stands, the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority has stated it opposes relief in the form of lower tarrifs on electricity. Since the attacks on their assets, no officials in either NEPRA or the electric supply companies will allow themselves to appear to be giving concessions to rioters.Foreign involvement in Pakistan's development has changed as well, recent American rhetoric on Pakistan is to \"take money off the table\". Old time partner, China has made plans for nuclear power projects to be built in the country over the next 10 years. But those are some time away.Besides cleaner hydro and wind energy generation, one priority project for Pakistan could be to take advantage of its coal deposits, which are the fifth biggest in the world. There have been plans for coal factories in the past, most famously one by Hong Kong tycoon Gordon Wu. Wu's plans for a coal power plant in Tharparkar, Sindh raised $1.8bn in foreign investment. The plans were realised after the project was cleared by a joint chiefs of staff committee in 1997. The plan was canned inexplicably three months into Sharif's second term. One popular explanation for the canning has been what many call the singular development of the Punjab province, at the expense of Sindh, Balochistan, and the North West Frontier Province. Ironically, there have been demonstrations against government energy projects with the same reasoning as well. Many saw the construction of the Kalabagh Dam as a measure by the Punjab government to assert its hegemony in Sindh.The government can't afford to lose out on such projects, and at the same time can't afford to dole out the same top-down relief in the form of tariff cuts anymore. But when described as having \"No money, no energy, no government\", it's hard to think of what the government can afford to do at all. Pakistan will have to clear up the mistrust that divides it along its provinces, and the government must rethink its current rapport with the public to deal with the countrywide crises to come.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Energy", "World news"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Lights out for Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-10-23T09:53:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "India and Pakistan are on divergent paths in the news today. While India looks to the future after yesterday's launch of its first unmanned moon mission, next door in Pakistan things seem to be spiralling downwards.\"Pakistan stares into the abyss\", the Independent splashes on its front page. Pressure on the army from the US to step up operations against Taliban militants in the lawless mountain region on the Afghan border has led to 200,000 people fleeing their villages, with 20,000 crossing over into Afghanistan.The deaths caused by the fighting are seen as \"collateral damage\", the paper says, in Pakistan's internal war on terror. According to a leaked letter from the former prime minister and main opposition party leader, Nawaz Sharif, Pakistan is going though \"the worst crisis of its history\".The situation in Pakistan is closely entwined with its economy, which is on the brink of collapse. The Pakistani government has been forced to ask the International Monetary Fund for an emergency $5bn bail-out after exhausting other sources, including its allies. The Guardian calculates Pakistan has seven weeks left before its foreign reserves run out and it cannot pay its debts - bankruptcy, in effect.Power cuts, rising food prices and the falling value of the rupee have led to a sense of emergency.The security issue does not look like calming any time soon, with a policy to further involve tribal militias - known as lashkars - in the offensive in the mountains.\"Pakistan plans to arm tens of thousands of anti-Taliban tribal fighters in its western border region,\" says the Washington Post, \"in hopes, shared by the US military, that the nascent militias can replicate the tribal 'awakening' movement that proved decisive in the battle against al-Qaida in Iraq.\" According to the Post, the lashkars will receive Chinese-made assault rifles and other small arms. Asif Ali Zardari, the Pakistani president, has already arranged their purchase, Pakistani officials have said.While the move has been welcomed by the US, relations between Islamabad and Washington could turn decidedly sour after news today of a missile attack by a US military drone on a suspected militant stronghold in the region, killing nine people at a religious school. The US claims the school belonged to a pro-Taliban cleric. A few hours before the attack, the Pakistani parliament passed a unanimous resolution against American military incursions on Pakistani soil.There's no doubt the threat posed by insurgents is real, as the bombing of the Marriott hotel in Islamabad demonstrated last month. But the economic situation and Pakistan's internal security are closely linked. In the Independent, Imran Khan, the former cricketer and now an opposition leader, said he saw \"no solution in sight\" either for the economic or security situation.The Pakistani foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, has warned that the west would suffer if Pakistan did not receive financial help. \"You have to wake up and realise that Pakistan is a victim,\" he told the BBC. \"Pakistan has stood by you ... if you don't stand by Pakistan you will let yourselves down.\"* Based on an extract from the Wrap, theguardian.com's digest of the day's news", "tags": ["Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan in crisis"},{"date": "2008-10-23T07:17:27Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two Pakistani journalists were slightly injured when a bomb went off outside the offices of local newspapers in Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan. The offices of five daily newspapers - Awam, Atemad, Intekhab, Public and Tijarat - were damaged. Once again, the president All Pakistan Newspapers Society has criticised the government for failing to giving adequate protection to journalists, who are being persistently harassed and threatened. (Via Pakistan Press Foundation)", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Media"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Five Pakistani papers hit by bombing"},{"date": "2008-10-21T09:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "After Israelis and Americans, Indians are probably among the least welcome people in Pakistan. Nevertheless, a fortnight ago I crossed over the border from Amritsar to Lahore for the first time to visit the land of (half) my ancestors. While angry rhetoric between the two nuclear-armed neighbours has calmed down significantly over the past decade, some flashpoints such as Kashmir and water disputes still remain, making the local politics still difficult.Pakistan is still on edge, this time primarily from terrorist bombings from Taliban elements that rock the nation almost daily. During my first full day in Karachi, three suicide attacks took place, one blowing up the anti-terrorism taskforce building.Last week, both British and American generals said we needed more troops in Afghanistan to turn the country around. But this ignores the deeper problem \u2013 to win in Afghanistan, first the battle for Pakistan must be won. And right now that's not looking too good.The pessimist's view is convincing: the Taliban have turned on their former masters; people are increasingly angry with US military incursions; the country's finances are very precarious; its politicians remain unpopular and are unlikely to resolve this mess. Furthermore, Afghan volatility is hurting Pakistan, as immigrants, guns and drugs flow over the borders with little to check them.The optimist's view is that Pakistan has been through much worse in its past and still managed to pull through. Already there are growing efforts to challenge each of these problems. When I told the rickshaw driver at the border I was of Indian origin, he only smiled and asked if I wouldn't mind giving him a souvenir from there. And he refused to take any money. Pakistan has a knack for surprises.Last year, a British born and trained journalist of Pakistani origin, Waseem Mahmood, got together a bunch of well-known Pakistani actors and singers to compose a song against terrorism titled Yeh Hum Naheen (This is not us). It quickly became a sensation and inspired a petition against terrorism launched earlier this year that enlisted the help of over 9,000 volunteers to gather over 60 million signatures from across the country. It is being entered into the Guinness Books of Records as the biggest petition ever.Such efforts usually pass under the notice of mainstream media across the world, because the only story out of Pakistan is usually a negative one involving terrorist camps. While there may be some truth to this, less attention is paid to how Pakistanis themselves are trying to deal with the issue.The government recently unveiled an ad campaign stating: \"Terrorists are the enemies of Islam, Pakistan and our people.\" A media organisation \u2013 the Jang Group \u2013 has even launched it own anti-terrorism campaign. Nevertheless, Pakistanis feel helpless because they have little faith in their political leaders and the army has lost much credibility in recent years under General Musharraf. Locally organised lashkars (armies) and jirgas (gatherings) of tribal leaders against the Taliban have been viciously attacked. But, encouragingly, the debate in Pakistan on extremism and terrorism is rapidly following the trajectory of developments here in Britain.The first phase is denial. Both in the UK and Pakistan, Muslims blamed Americans for the existence of terrorism. If we pull out of Iraq and Afghanistan, everything will be fine, the thinking went.But this ignores a deeper problem: why are people choosing to blow up themselves and innocent people as a form of political protest? The existence of suicide terrorism is a problem in itself. Unsurprisingly, the first phase of Mahmood's campaign focuses on owning the issue: Terrorism is our problem and we have to deal with it. Similarly, in the UK, the discussion of terrorism among British Muslims has moved on from blaming others for the problem to owning the issue.And then what? \"There's too many people sitting around producing reports on what the problem is, and not enough people trying to deal with the problem of terrorism,\" Mahmood says. Accordingly, they now focus on getting Pakistanis to talk about terrorism at home, at school and more openly.Talking about extremism out in the open in local communities is more difficult, but is the only way to start a system of detection and prevention. The YHN campaign is ahead of the curve because the rest of Pakistani society has not yet accepted that if you give an inch to religious terrorists they will take a mile. The Taliban have no qualms about blowing up innocent Muslims across Pakistan and trying to destabilise the country \u2013 their aims are political, not religious. Here lies the solution too. Pakistanis are intensely nationalist people, born out of the uncertain nature of the partition and always feeling threatened by their larger neighbour. But as the Taliban becomes a bigger threat to national security rather than India, public opinion will slowly but surely move against them.But as one prominent media executive said under the condition of anonymity, it may take a few more big blasts like the Marriott before Pakistanis realise the true nature of the Taliban. And then a new direction will surely have to be found. As the country's celebrated Urdu poet Faiz Ahmed Faiz once said, the danger is that Pakistan will continue as it has always done.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Sunny Hundal: Pakistan's government and civilian groups are attempting to show the true nature of the Taliban"},{"date": "2008-12-26T17:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "International attention has focused on Pakistan like never before in the weeks following the Mumbai attacks. To quote Bruce Riedel, a former CIA officer and adviser to President-elect Barack Obama: \"All of the world's nightmares come together in Pakistan.\"  Assuming the world does not have the option of turning its back on the country, what can it do to help Pakistan? The short answer is that Pakistan needs economic assistance. The militant extremists who wreak havoc are, for the most part, unemployed and frustrated young men.  If the Pakistani people \u2013 as opposed to the Pakistani military \u2013 were given tangible, visible economic assistance, it would go a long way toward winning over a suspicious populace. After all, starving Pakistanis cannot eat the F-16s sold to their armed forces. With that in mind, here are three suggestions. The short-term solutionThe simplest and quickest way to help Pakistan's economy is to reduce the tariffs imposed on Pakistan's textile sector, which accounts for approximately 60% of Pakistan's exports and more than 60% of its industrial workforce.  Pakistan has one of the world's most dynamic and well-developed textile industries, but in recent years business has shifted to other countries with more favourable tariff regimes.  If the EU and the US, Pakistan's largest textile importers, were to remove or reduce tariffs on Pakistani textiles, experts believe that Pakistan's $7.5bn worth of textile exports would easily triple in value. Since the textile industry is generally labour intensive, the influx of business would immediately result in increased employment. The medium-term solutionThe world should help Pakistan focus on development in the north-west frontier province (NWFP) where problems with extremism are most acute.  The NWFP has tremendous potential for hydro-electric (hydel) projects. A heavy investment in the hydel infrastructure of the NWFP has the potential to almost triple the current total power generating capacity of Pakistan. However, international investors are reluctant to invest because of security concerns, while the Pakistani government lacks the necessary capital. Providing the capital for hydel projects would have a number of benefits. Because civil works account for about 50% to 70% of the overall cost of hydel projects, these projects would provide jobs for unskilled labourers in desperately poor areas.  Additionally, each hydel project would provide the NWFP government with ongoing funds for development projects. Increased electricity production from hydel plants would not only help industries crippled by blackouts, but also reduce the huge cost of imported furnace oil.  The long-term solutionProvide financial support for education. The Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan, set up in 2002 by General Pervez Musharraf, will likely be remembered as one of his most beneficial legacies. Between 2002 and 2007, annual funding for higher education increased from 4.3bn to 14.3bn rupees. Consequently, the number of university students jumped from 135,000 to 316,000.  According to a 2008 USAID report, HEC's \"progress to date has been remarkable \u2013 indeed, in terms of value added, better than any other developing country this team has reviewed over the last two decades.\" In absolute terms, however, less than 4% of college-age students in Pakistan are in higher education, compared to 11% and 20% in India and China, respectively. Pakistan, therefore, needs to spend a tremendous amount more, but it does not have those funds.  The Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) is recognised as the most prestigious college in Pakistan. Above its entrance is a plaque stating that the construction of the main building was made possible by a USAID grant of $10m.  The thousands of graduates whose education was made possible, in part by the generosity of others, may well disagree with American policies. But knowing the source of their education's funding, they are a lot less likely to hate the US.  Why is it then, that since its investment in LUMS, USAID has made no equivalent investments in higher education in Pakistan? Pakistan today is not just a nation on the edge but the tipping point in a global struggle against extremism. By giving the right help, the world can save a lot more than Pakistan.This article was distributed by the Common Ground News Service.", "tags": ["US news", "US foreign policy", "Pakistan", "Mumbai terror attacks", "World news"], "title": "Feisal Hussain Naqvi: US aid to Pakistan will go a long way in combatting global terrorism"},{"date": "2008-12-08T02:16:26Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ahmed began working in a surgical instrument workshop at eight years old. \"I do not like this work, in fact I want to go to school but my father says that I should work,\" he says. Shakeel's three uncles and elder brother all work in the industry. He does all kinds of work including polishing and grinding. He and the other workers are paid on a piece rate for the instruments they make. If Shakeel works all day, he can earn about 170 rupees (\u00a31.42). The work can be dangerous because the workshop does not provide protective equipment or clothing. \"If anything breaks up, it can hit me, I need to work carefully otherwise it is very dangerous.\" Minor injuries in the workshop are common and Shakeel saw a major accident last year. \"[A worker] was operating a polisher, the stone blade broke suddenly and it hit his head and it started to bleed, other workers caught him and carried him to hospital,\" he recalls. Bhatti has been working in the industry since he was nine years old. He says it is common for workers to get into debt with their employers, for example if they have a large expenditure or if the workshop does not have many orders. \"Poor workers get into debt when they have some problem and they pay it back or it is deducted from their wages,\" he says. This can place workers in hoc to their employer and make it difficult for them to demand better conditions. He is paid a piece rate per item he makes and earns 250 to 300 rupees (\u00a32.15 to \u00a32.60) a day. Bhatti is sanguine about the risks of working in the workshop. \"Every work is dangerous,\" he says. \"We are used to it and we work very carefully.\" He has been injured \"many times\" but never seriously. \"I have seen countless workers' injuries, this is part of our work,\" he says.This information about Shakeel Ahmed and Nasir Bhatti was provided by Liaquat Javed, of BRIC Pakistan (Backwards Rehabilitation and Improvement Commission), an NGO set up in 1997 that works to improve the conditions of workers in Pakistan.Javed says conditions in the handful of large surgical instrument factories are generally good, but much of the work is done by workers in small workshops with two to 20 workers. \"The working conditions at home-based units are extremely bad and poor,\" he says. \"There are no health and safety measures and no training. The wages are nominal ... the situation is very bad but workers have no option. If they will not work how will they earn a daily living?\"These conditions are common in the industry. \"If you walk the streets you will find countless workshops where you will see a horrible situation - child labourers, workers' faces full with metal dust and noise. The children operate polishers, grinders and at many units I saw the children working with chemicals without any gloves or masks.\"Workers are not aware of their rights. They are illiterate, they have no unions and they are not allowed to make unions. Workers are deprived of education, health and justice.\"He believes that buyers such as the NHS have the most power to make changes by forcing their suppliers to take action. \"In this horrible situation, buyers can play best role if they put demands to the suppliers. So the NHS can play very positive role,\" he says.Safdir admits that working conditions in the industry could be improved, but says child labour has been almost eliminated. \"No more children are coming into this field,\" he says. \"You can hardly find any children in the industry. The big companies don't have any children.\" The International Labour Organisation's estimate of 5,800 child labourers working in surgical instrument manufacture is out of date, says Safdir, adding that the industry is working to improve conditions for the workers. \"We are regularly monitoring those workshops. We are also investing a lot of money in them for the betterment of their employees and for better working conditions.\"He accuses NGOs such as the ILO of talking up the child labour problem to obtain more charitable donations from abroad. \"The trouble with these people is that if there is no child labour in the surgical industry, how are they going to get their funds from abroad? What are these NGOs going to work on? They are not giving the true picture to the world. They have their own interests.\" According to Safdir, there is currently a shortage of skilled labourers so some workers are demanding a golden handshake of \u00a31,000 just to begin work at a factory. He says that for conditions to improve buyers such as the NHS will have to pay more for the products, but this extra money should be monitored to make sure that it benefits workers.", "tags": ["Science", "NHS", "Health", "Health policy", "Society", "Politics", "Pakistan", "World news", "UK news", "Child labour"], "title": "Voices from Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-03T12:55:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I've been meaning to write something about the ISI, but then I sat down and listened to Brother Borger, here, and acknowledged that he said everything I'd say and more, and better besides. I don't know that there's anything that can be done about the ISI. The news -- well, it isn't quite yet news; the informed speculation -- that Dick Holbrooke is under consideration as Obama's special envoy to South Asia is somewhat promising. Holbrooke did work some diplomatic miracles with the Serbs and the Croats, and at the UN in terms of getting member nations to pitch in their fair shares of dues. He is by all accounts an annoyingly persistent man, which is good.However, I do disagree with Julian on the question of whether Obama's national-security team represents a paradigm shift. He says no, because of the presences of Clinton and Gates. I say yes. The bottom line is that they'll be taking orders from a new guy at the top. Obama is not George Bush. The peoples of the world aren't going to link hands anytime soon and sing \"Imagine\" -- a song I've decided I don't really like anyway, but that's for another post -- but there will be change, and I think lots of it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-05T10:40:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A year ago, the Musharraf regime demonstrated its actions were divorced of any moral or political consistency.Its prime directive that year was to delay democratic elections by arresting judicial and human rights activists and jailing lawyers. When the press labelled him a dictator, Musharraf censored Pakistan's television channels and sent three Daily Telegraph reporters back to England, when he misconstrued editorial's endorsement of his presidency. His record of blunders is likely to continue even now that he has stepped down from his presidential seat, but he'll never live down his brutal suppression of lawyers. Today, lawyers rallied outside the Lahore High Court on the anniversary of what stickers plastered on poles called \"the blackest day in the history of the judiciary\". It's been one year since emergency was declared, and a lawyer on the street told me about the progress: \"We're certainly not getting baton-charged or arrested anymore,\" he said. \"The whole community was taken by surprise, held hostage in their own homes based on Musharraf's whims. Today we're a little safer.\"Outside the courthouse stood a mammoth stage for Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League assembly members to give speeches. Around the stage hung huge yellow-and-white banners, with pictures of brothers Nawaz and Shabaz Sharif outnumbering those of deposed Iftikhar Chaudhry two to one. And while I was happy Nawaz Sharif was out of the country, his party's presence ensured that there would be no more public beatings of lawyers. PML-N members Tehmina Doltana, Captain Safdar, Shabaz Sharif's son Saad Sharif, and Zulfiqar Khosa all gave speeches to thousands of party workers, who clogged the roads leading up to the governor's house. I've doubtedNawaz Sharif in the past, but it's clear he's not willing to give up this support, which he campaigned on to win across Punjab. Other political parties like Imran Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaaf, and the Awami National Party were present, alongside the Students Action Committee and civil activists, the Concerned Citizens of PakistanSitting cross-legged on the street were elementary-aged schoolchildren demonstrating safely next to red-faced lawyers, chanting \"Zardari killed BB\" in Urdu outside the governor's house, where PPP member Salmaan Taseer presides. Slipping out from under a dictatorship has allowed Pakistan to provide a peaceful atmosphere for such heated ralliesBut the judiciary is still not restored, and no convincing gestures were made on the part of Nawaz Sharif between his election and today's demonstration to push the issue along. His interest in the judiciary also smacks of party bias, as the current stand-in supreme court chief, Justice Abdul Hameed Dogar, is an open Pakistan People's Party member. Recent developments show steps towards judicial independence can be achieved without needing to be tainted by partisan politicsLast week, the lawyers' judiciary movement scored a victory when one of its most-recognisable activists, Ali Ahmed Kurd, was elected as president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. Judicial activists who were under house arrest last year, like barrister Aitizaz Ahsan, were available for comment. In his words, the anniversary marks the \"start of [the] miseries of the oppressed Pakistanis\". Let's hope that burden's being lifted off our shoulders", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Slow progress in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-03T10:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For the past year the public in Pakistan has been incensed by daily power cuts. The past month saw unprecedented black-outs of 12 hours. Then, like a back-hand in the dark, business owners and working class alike have been slapped with a bill charging them three times the usual monthly charge for electricity. The official explanation for the price hike is that energy supply companies have began charging higher tariffs earlier than planned. Lahore Electric Supply Company officials anonymously told a reporter from Urdu daily paper Jang that they were given revenue targets to reach.\"If this is the cost, then I don't want any\" has been the general sentiments of those protesting across the country, setting fire to tyres and bills alike. But are the flaming tyres enough to up the heat on Pakistan's half-baked government, who for once will have to come up with a working solution for all four provinces. Statements from the people already demonstrate a great deal of mistrust.\"If a collections officer comes here, this area's men will not have to raise a finger, we'll tie them up and twist their necks\", one woman told me at a protest made up of one side-street's female residents. One elderly resident died of a heart attack upon receiving the bill. His neighborhood, Rasul Park Colony, held a procession and a protest in his honor.Demonstrations against over-billing occurred in both the major as well as median sized cities like Sargodha, Faislabad, Chakwal, and Nankana. Offices of Lahore Electric Supply Company have been assaulted by mobs, and an engineer was attacked in Sheikhapura. And there are likely to be more violent protests: to cope with escalating costs some industries have closed factories, with textiles losing over 100,000 jobs.So as discontent increases, a discouraging trend occurs with how the public justifies mob violence. The first protest of this sort happened last week, when a Lahore Electric Supply Company office was torched by a mob in Gujurpura, Lahore. The following day demonstrators told me they would not be afraid to attack more offices if the billing continued. They placed the onus of the blame on President Zardari.The official response from the ruling party was defensive, encouraging the public \"to have faith in the government they helped form\". Now that the government has pushed to reduce a proposed tariff hike of 60%, a reduction some credit the violence as being instrumental in achieving.One reason for this rise in Pakistani protesting culture is the involvement of opposition parties in patronising civil unrest. Under Musharraf, protests by Sindhis against the construction of the Kalabagh Dam were sponsored by the People's Party. The lawyers' movement has by and large been sponsored by money and statements by Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League. Danish Cartoon and Salman Rushdie protests are held by scattered religious parties.This intersection of political campaign and patronising protest has led to an easily agitated, violent public. When the mob burned down the LESCO office, they destroyed the records required to prove their case of over-billing. Wrecked government property is replaced with tax money. In this recent development, the Pakistani government has proven to be ineffective in educating the public to push petitions through consumer and standard courts. Other facilities, such as the Monopoly Control Authority, have been contacted in the past to resolve cement and sugar cartels. There are other avenues as well, to which the people could have appealed instead of rioting. As more jobs get cut, which is inevitable in this crisis, an effective outreach to the isolated labour class will also be necessary to curb violence. While there is a set minimum wage, the secretary of labour in Lahore claims the number of labourers registered with them is neglible. Now, time is of the essence to breath life into these projects. As it stands, the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority has stated it opposes relief in the form of lower tarrifs on electricity. Since the attacks on their assets, no officials in either NEPRA or the electric supply companies will allow themselves to appear to be giving concessions to rioters.Foreign involvement in Pakistan's development has changed as well, recent American rhetoric on Pakistan is to \"take money off the table\". Old time partner, China has made plans for nuclear power projects to be built in the country over the next 10 years. But those are some time away.Besides cleaner hydro and wind energy generation, one priority project for Pakistan could be to take advantage of its coal deposits, which are the fifth biggest in the world. There have been plans for coal factories in the past, most famously one by Hong Kong tycoon Gordon Wu. Wu's plans for a coal power plant in Tharparkar, Sindh raised $1.8bn in foreign investment. The plans were realised after the project was cleared by a joint chiefs of staff committee in 1997. The plan was canned inexplicably three months into Sharif's second term. One popular explanation for the canning has been what many call the singular development of the Punjab province, at the expense of Sindh, Balochistan, and the North West Frontier Province. Ironically, there have been demonstrations against government energy projects with the same reasoning as well. Many saw the construction of the Kalabagh Dam as a measure by the Punjab government to assert its hegemony in Sindh.The government can't afford to lose out on such projects, and at the same time can't afford to dole out the same top-down relief in the form of tariff cuts anymore. But when described as having \"No money, no energy, no government\", it's hard to think of what the government can afford to do at all. Pakistan will have to clear up the mistrust that divides it along its provinces, and the government must rethink its current rapport with the public to deal with the countrywide crises to come.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Energy", "World news"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Lights out for Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-10-23T09:53:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "India and Pakistan are on divergent paths in the news today. While India looks to the future after yesterday's launch of its first unmanned moon mission, next door in Pakistan things seem to be spiralling downwards.\"Pakistan stares into the abyss\", the Independent splashes on its front page. Pressure on the army from the US to step up operations against Taliban militants in the lawless mountain region on the Afghan border has led to 200,000 people fleeing their villages, with 20,000 crossing over into Afghanistan.The deaths caused by the fighting are seen as \"collateral damage\", the paper says, in Pakistan's internal war on terror. According to a leaked letter from the former prime minister and main opposition party leader, Nawaz Sharif, Pakistan is going though \"the worst crisis of its history\".The situation in Pakistan is closely entwined with its economy, which is on the brink of collapse. The Pakistani government has been forced to ask the International Monetary Fund for an emergency $5bn bail-out after exhausting other sources, including its allies. The Guardian calculates Pakistan has seven weeks left before its foreign reserves run out and it cannot pay its debts - bankruptcy, in effect.Power cuts, rising food prices and the falling value of the rupee have led to a sense of emergency.The security issue does not look like calming any time soon, with a policy to further involve tribal militias - known as lashkars - in the offensive in the mountains.\"Pakistan plans to arm tens of thousands of anti-Taliban tribal fighters in its western border region,\" says the Washington Post, \"in hopes, shared by the US military, that the nascent militias can replicate the tribal 'awakening' movement that proved decisive in the battle against al-Qaida in Iraq.\" According to the Post, the lashkars will receive Chinese-made assault rifles and other small arms. Asif Ali Zardari, the Pakistani president, has already arranged their purchase, Pakistani officials have said.While the move has been welcomed by the US, relations between Islamabad and Washington could turn decidedly sour after news today of a missile attack by a US military drone on a suspected militant stronghold in the region, killing nine people at a religious school. The US claims the school belonged to a pro-Taliban cleric. A few hours before the attack, the Pakistani parliament passed a unanimous resolution against American military incursions on Pakistani soil.There's no doubt the threat posed by insurgents is real, as the bombing of the Marriott hotel in Islamabad demonstrated last month. But the economic situation and Pakistan's internal security are closely linked. In the Independent, Imran Khan, the former cricketer and now an opposition leader, said he saw \"no solution in sight\" either for the economic or security situation.The Pakistani foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, has warned that the west would suffer if Pakistan did not receive financial help. \"You have to wake up and realise that Pakistan is a victim,\" he told the BBC. \"Pakistan has stood by you ... if you don't stand by Pakistan you will let yourselves down.\"* Based on an extract from the Wrap, theguardian.com's digest of the day's news", "tags": ["Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan in crisis"},{"date": "2008-10-23T07:17:27Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two Pakistani journalists were slightly injured when a bomb went off outside the offices of local newspapers in Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan. The offices of five daily newspapers - Awam, Atemad, Intekhab, Public and Tijarat - were damaged. Once again, the president All Pakistan Newspapers Society has criticised the government for failing to giving adequate protection to journalists, who are being persistently harassed and threatened. (Via Pakistan Press Foundation)", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Media"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Five Pakistani papers hit by bombing"},{"date": "2008-10-21T09:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "After Israelis and Americans, Indians are probably among the least welcome people in Pakistan. Nevertheless, a fortnight ago I crossed over the border from Amritsar to Lahore for the first time to visit the land of (half) my ancestors. While angry rhetoric between the two nuclear-armed neighbours has calmed down significantly over the past decade, some flashpoints such as Kashmir and water disputes still remain, making the local politics still difficult.Pakistan is still on edge, this time primarily from terrorist bombings from Taliban elements that rock the nation almost daily. During my first full day in Karachi, three suicide attacks took place, one blowing up the anti-terrorism taskforce building.Last week, both British and American generals said we needed more troops in Afghanistan to turn the country around. But this ignores the deeper problem \u2013 to win in Afghanistan, first the battle for Pakistan must be won. And right now that's not looking too good.The pessimist's view is convincing: the Taliban have turned on their former masters; people are increasingly angry with US military incursions; the country's finances are very precarious; its politicians remain unpopular and are unlikely to resolve this mess. Furthermore, Afghan volatility is hurting Pakistan, as immigrants, guns and drugs flow over the borders with little to check them.The optimist's view is that Pakistan has been through much worse in its past and still managed to pull through. Already there are growing efforts to challenge each of these problems. When I told the rickshaw driver at the border I was of Indian origin, he only smiled and asked if I wouldn't mind giving him a souvenir from there. And he refused to take any money. Pakistan has a knack for surprises.Last year, a British born and trained journalist of Pakistani origin, Waseem Mahmood, got together a bunch of well-known Pakistani actors and singers to compose a song against terrorism titled Yeh Hum Naheen (This is not us). It quickly became a sensation and inspired a petition against terrorism launched earlier this year that enlisted the help of over 9,000 volunteers to gather over 60 million signatures from across the country. It is being entered into the Guinness Books of Records as the biggest petition ever.Such efforts usually pass under the notice of mainstream media across the world, because the only story out of Pakistan is usually a negative one involving terrorist camps. While there may be some truth to this, less attention is paid to how Pakistanis themselves are trying to deal with the issue.The government recently unveiled an ad campaign stating: \"Terrorists are the enemies of Islam, Pakistan and our people.\" A media organisation \u2013 the Jang Group \u2013 has even launched it own anti-terrorism campaign. Nevertheless, Pakistanis feel helpless because they have little faith in their political leaders and the army has lost much credibility in recent years under General Musharraf. Locally organised lashkars (armies) and jirgas (gatherings) of tribal leaders against the Taliban have been viciously attacked. But, encouragingly, the debate in Pakistan on extremism and terrorism is rapidly following the trajectory of developments here in Britain.The first phase is denial. Both in the UK and Pakistan, Muslims blamed Americans for the existence of terrorism. If we pull out of Iraq and Afghanistan, everything will be fine, the thinking went.But this ignores a deeper problem: why are people choosing to blow up themselves and innocent people as a form of political protest? The existence of suicide terrorism is a problem in itself. Unsurprisingly, the first phase of Mahmood's campaign focuses on owning the issue: Terrorism is our problem and we have to deal with it. Similarly, in the UK, the discussion of terrorism among British Muslims has moved on from blaming others for the problem to owning the issue.And then what? \"There's too many people sitting around producing reports on what the problem is, and not enough people trying to deal with the problem of terrorism,\" Mahmood says. Accordingly, they now focus on getting Pakistanis to talk about terrorism at home, at school and more openly.Talking about extremism out in the open in local communities is more difficult, but is the only way to start a system of detection and prevention. The YHN campaign is ahead of the curve because the rest of Pakistani society has not yet accepted that if you give an inch to religious terrorists they will take a mile. The Taliban have no qualms about blowing up innocent Muslims across Pakistan and trying to destabilise the country \u2013 their aims are political, not religious. Here lies the solution too. Pakistanis are intensely nationalist people, born out of the uncertain nature of the partition and always feeling threatened by their larger neighbour. But as the Taliban becomes a bigger threat to national security rather than India, public opinion will slowly but surely move against them.But as one prominent media executive said under the condition of anonymity, it may take a few more big blasts like the Marriott before Pakistanis realise the true nature of the Taliban. And then a new direction will surely have to be found. As the country's celebrated Urdu poet Faiz Ahmed Faiz once said, the danger is that Pakistan will continue as it has always done.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Sunny Hundal: Pakistan's government and civilian groups are attempting to show the true nature of the Taliban"},{"date": "2008-12-26T17:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "International attention has focused on Pakistan like never before in the weeks following the Mumbai attacks. To quote Bruce Riedel, a former CIA officer and adviser to President-elect Barack Obama: \"All of the world's nightmares come together in Pakistan.\"  Assuming the world does not have the option of turning its back on the country, what can it do to help Pakistan? The short answer is that Pakistan needs economic assistance. The militant extremists who wreak havoc are, for the most part, unemployed and frustrated young men.  If the Pakistani people \u2013 as opposed to the Pakistani military \u2013 were given tangible, visible economic assistance, it would go a long way toward winning over a suspicious populace. After all, starving Pakistanis cannot eat the F-16s sold to their armed forces. With that in mind, here are three suggestions. The short-term solutionThe simplest and quickest way to help Pakistan's economy is to reduce the tariffs imposed on Pakistan's textile sector, which accounts for approximately 60% of Pakistan's exports and more than 60% of its industrial workforce.  Pakistan has one of the world's most dynamic and well-developed textile industries, but in recent years business has shifted to other countries with more favourable tariff regimes.  If the EU and the US, Pakistan's largest textile importers, were to remove or reduce tariffs on Pakistani textiles, experts believe that Pakistan's $7.5bn worth of textile exports would easily triple in value. Since the textile industry is generally labour intensive, the influx of business would immediately result in increased employment. The medium-term solutionThe world should help Pakistan focus on development in the north-west frontier province (NWFP) where problems with extremism are most acute.  The NWFP has tremendous potential for hydro-electric (hydel) projects. A heavy investment in the hydel infrastructure of the NWFP has the potential to almost triple the current total power generating capacity of Pakistan. However, international investors are reluctant to invest because of security concerns, while the Pakistani government lacks the necessary capital. Providing the capital for hydel projects would have a number of benefits. Because civil works account for about 50% to 70% of the overall cost of hydel projects, these projects would provide jobs for unskilled labourers in desperately poor areas.  Additionally, each hydel project would provide the NWFP government with ongoing funds for development projects. Increased electricity production from hydel plants would not only help industries crippled by blackouts, but also reduce the huge cost of imported furnace oil.  The long-term solutionProvide financial support for education. The Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan, set up in 2002 by General Pervez Musharraf, will likely be remembered as one of his most beneficial legacies. Between 2002 and 2007, annual funding for higher education increased from 4.3bn to 14.3bn rupees. Consequently, the number of university students jumped from 135,000 to 316,000.  According to a 2008 USAID report, HEC's \"progress to date has been remarkable \u2013 indeed, in terms of value added, better than any other developing country this team has reviewed over the last two decades.\" In absolute terms, however, less than 4% of college-age students in Pakistan are in higher education, compared to 11% and 20% in India and China, respectively. Pakistan, therefore, needs to spend a tremendous amount more, but it does not have those funds.  The Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) is recognised as the most prestigious college in Pakistan. Above its entrance is a plaque stating that the construction of the main building was made possible by a USAID grant of $10m.  The thousands of graduates whose education was made possible, in part by the generosity of others, may well disagree with American policies. But knowing the source of their education's funding, they are a lot less likely to hate the US.  Why is it then, that since its investment in LUMS, USAID has made no equivalent investments in higher education in Pakistan? Pakistan today is not just a nation on the edge but the tipping point in a global struggle against extremism. By giving the right help, the world can save a lot more than Pakistan.This article was distributed by the Common Ground News Service.", "tags": ["US news", "US foreign policy", "Pakistan", "Mumbai terror attacks", "World news"], "title": "Feisal Hussain Naqvi: US aid to Pakistan will go a long way in combatting global terrorism"},{"date": "2008-12-22T08:28:46Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A suspected US missile strike killed at least seven people today in north-west Pakistan, intelligence officials and a witness said.Yar Mohammad, a villager, said a fortified house was destroyed and local Taliban pulled out seven bodies while cordoning off the scene in the Kari Khel area, about 10 miles (15km) south of Wana, the main town in the South Waziristan tribal area near the Afghan border.Mohammad said he heard a drone aircraft circling the area before the attack at 8.40am local time (3.40am GMT). Two intelligence officials, speaking anonymously, confirmed the strike and casualties.The US has made more than 30 missile strikes since August in Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal areas, targeting al-Qaida and Taliban militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan. While the missile strikes have killed scores of militants, Pakistan has called them an infringement of its sovereignty and says they undermine its own war on terror.Most of the missiles are believed to have been launched from unmanned spy planes that take off from Afghanistan. Washington rarely confirms or denies the attacks.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US news"], "title": "Deadly missile strike in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-08T02:16:26Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ahmed began working in a surgical instrument workshop at eight years old. \"I do not like this work, in fact I want to go to school but my father says that I should work,\" he says. Shakeel's three uncles and elder brother all work in the industry. He does all kinds of work including polishing and grinding. He and the other workers are paid on a piece rate for the instruments they make. If Shakeel works all day, he can earn about 170 rupees (\u00a31.42). The work can be dangerous because the workshop does not provide protective equipment or clothing. \"If anything breaks up, it can hit me, I need to work carefully otherwise it is very dangerous.\" Minor injuries in the workshop are common and Shakeel saw a major accident last year. \"[A worker] was operating a polisher, the stone blade broke suddenly and it hit his head and it started to bleed, other workers caught him and carried him to hospital,\" he recalls. Bhatti has been working in the industry since he was nine years old. He says it is common for workers to get into debt with their employers, for example if they have a large expenditure or if the workshop does not have many orders. \"Poor workers get into debt when they have some problem and they pay it back or it is deducted from their wages,\" he says. This can place workers in hoc to their employer and make it difficult for them to demand better conditions. He is paid a piece rate per item he makes and earns 250 to 300 rupees (\u00a32.15 to \u00a32.60) a day. Bhatti is sanguine about the risks of working in the workshop. \"Every work is dangerous,\" he says. \"We are used to it and we work very carefully.\" He has been injured \"many times\" but never seriously. \"I have seen countless workers' injuries, this is part of our work,\" he says.This information about Shakeel Ahmed and Nasir Bhatti was provided by Liaquat Javed, of BRIC Pakistan (Backwards Rehabilitation and Improvement Commission), an NGO set up in 1997 that works to improve the conditions of workers in Pakistan.Javed says conditions in the handful of large surgical instrument factories are generally good, but much of the work is done by workers in small workshops with two to 20 workers. \"The working conditions at home-based units are extremely bad and poor,\" he says. \"There are no health and safety measures and no training. The wages are nominal ... the situation is very bad but workers have no option. If they will not work how will they earn a daily living?\"These conditions are common in the industry. \"If you walk the streets you will find countless workshops where you will see a horrible situation - child labourers, workers' faces full with metal dust and noise. The children operate polishers, grinders and at many units I saw the children working with chemicals without any gloves or masks.\"Workers are not aware of their rights. They are illiterate, they have no unions and they are not allowed to make unions. Workers are deprived of education, health and justice.\"He believes that buyers such as the NHS have the most power to make changes by forcing their suppliers to take action. \"In this horrible situation, buyers can play best role if they put demands to the suppliers. So the NHS can play very positive role,\" he says.Safdir admits that working conditions in the industry could be improved, but says child labour has been almost eliminated. \"No more children are coming into this field,\" he says. \"You can hardly find any children in the industry. The big companies don't have any children.\" The International Labour Organisation's estimate of 5,800 child labourers working in surgical instrument manufacture is out of date, says Safdir, adding that the industry is working to improve conditions for the workers. \"We are regularly monitoring those workshops. We are also investing a lot of money in them for the betterment of their employees and for better working conditions.\"He accuses NGOs such as the ILO of talking up the child labour problem to obtain more charitable donations from abroad. \"The trouble with these people is that if there is no child labour in the surgical industry, how are they going to get their funds from abroad? What are these NGOs going to work on? They are not giving the true picture to the world. They have their own interests.\" According to Safdir, there is currently a shortage of skilled labourers so some workers are demanding a golden handshake of \u00a31,000 just to begin work at a factory. He says that for conditions to improve buyers such as the NHS will have to pay more for the products, but this extra money should be monitored to make sure that it benefits workers.", "tags": ["Science", "NHS", "Health", "Health policy", "Society", "Politics", "Pakistan", "World news", "UK news", "Child labour"], "title": "Voices from Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-12-03T12:55:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I've been meaning to write something about the ISI, but then I sat down and listened to Brother Borger, here, and acknowledged that he said everything I'd say and more, and better besides. I don't know that there's anything that can be done about the ISI. The news -- well, it isn't quite yet news; the informed speculation -- that Dick Holbrooke is under consideration as Obama's special envoy to South Asia is somewhat promising. Holbrooke did work some diplomatic miracles with the Serbs and the Croats, and at the UN in terms of getting member nations to pitch in their fair shares of dues. He is by all accounts an annoyingly persistent man, which is good.However, I do disagree with Julian on the question of whether Obama's national-security team represents a paradigm shift. He says no, because of the presences of Clinton and Gates. I say yes. The bottom line is that they'll be taking orders from a new guy at the top. Obama is not George Bush. The peoples of the world aren't going to link hands anytime soon and sing \"Imagine\" -- a song I've decided I don't really like anyway, but that's for another post -- but there will be change, and I think lots of it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-05T10:40:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A year ago, the Musharraf regime demonstrated its actions were divorced of any moral or political consistency.Its prime directive that year was to delay democratic elections by arresting judicial and human rights activists and jailing lawyers. When the press labelled him a dictator, Musharraf censored Pakistan's television channels and sent three Daily Telegraph reporters back to England, when he misconstrued editorial's endorsement of his presidency. His record of blunders is likely to continue even now that he has stepped down from his presidential seat, but he'll never live down his brutal suppression of lawyers. Today, lawyers rallied outside the Lahore High Court on the anniversary of what stickers plastered on poles called \"the blackest day in the history of the judiciary\". It's been one year since emergency was declared, and a lawyer on the street told me about the progress: \"We're certainly not getting baton-charged or arrested anymore,\" he said. \"The whole community was taken by surprise, held hostage in their own homes based on Musharraf's whims. Today we're a little safer.\"Outside the courthouse stood a mammoth stage for Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League assembly members to give speeches. Around the stage hung huge yellow-and-white banners, with pictures of brothers Nawaz and Shabaz Sharif outnumbering those of deposed Iftikhar Chaudhry two to one. And while I was happy Nawaz Sharif was out of the country, his party's presence ensured that there would be no more public beatings of lawyers. PML-N members Tehmina Doltana, Captain Safdar, Shabaz Sharif's son Saad Sharif, and Zulfiqar Khosa all gave speeches to thousands of party workers, who clogged the roads leading up to the governor's house. I've doubtedNawaz Sharif in the past, but it's clear he's not willing to give up this support, which he campaigned on to win across Punjab. Other political parties like Imran Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaaf, and the Awami National Party were present, alongside the Students Action Committee and civil activists, the Concerned Citizens of PakistanSitting cross-legged on the street were elementary-aged schoolchildren demonstrating safely next to red-faced lawyers, chanting \"Zardari killed BB\" in Urdu outside the governor's house, where PPP member Salmaan Taseer presides. Slipping out from under a dictatorship has allowed Pakistan to provide a peaceful atmosphere for such heated ralliesBut the judiciary is still not restored, and no convincing gestures were made on the part of Nawaz Sharif between his election and today's demonstration to push the issue along. His interest in the judiciary also smacks of party bias, as the current stand-in supreme court chief, Justice Abdul Hameed Dogar, is an open Pakistan People's Party member. Recent developments show steps towards judicial independence can be achieved without needing to be tainted by partisan politicsLast week, the lawyers' judiciary movement scored a victory when one of its most-recognisable activists, Ali Ahmed Kurd, was elected as president of the Supreme Court Bar Association. Judicial activists who were under house arrest last year, like barrister Aitizaz Ahsan, were available for comment. In his words, the anniversary marks the \"start of [the] miseries of the oppressed Pakistanis\". Let's hope that burden's being lifted off our shoulders", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Slow progress in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-11-03T10:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For the past year the public in Pakistan has been incensed by daily power cuts. The past month saw unprecedented black-outs of 12 hours. Then, like a back-hand in the dark, business owners and working class alike have been slapped with a bill charging them three times the usual monthly charge for electricity. The official explanation for the price hike is that energy supply companies have began charging higher tariffs earlier than planned. Lahore Electric Supply Company officials anonymously told a reporter from Urdu daily paper Jang that they were given revenue targets to reach.\"If this is the cost, then I don't want any\" has been the general sentiments of those protesting across the country, setting fire to tyres and bills alike. But are the flaming tyres enough to up the heat on Pakistan's half-baked government, who for once will have to come up with a working solution for all four provinces. Statements from the people already demonstrate a great deal of mistrust.\"If a collections officer comes here, this area's men will not have to raise a finger, we'll tie them up and twist their necks\", one woman told me at a protest made up of one side-street's female residents. One elderly resident died of a heart attack upon receiving the bill. His neighborhood, Rasul Park Colony, held a procession and a protest in his honor.Demonstrations against over-billing occurred in both the major as well as median sized cities like Sargodha, Faislabad, Chakwal, and Nankana. Offices of Lahore Electric Supply Company have been assaulted by mobs, and an engineer was attacked in Sheikhapura. And there are likely to be more violent protests: to cope with escalating costs some industries have closed factories, with textiles losing over 100,000 jobs.So as discontent increases, a discouraging trend occurs with how the public justifies mob violence. The first protest of this sort happened last week, when a Lahore Electric Supply Company office was torched by a mob in Gujurpura, Lahore. The following day demonstrators told me they would not be afraid to attack more offices if the billing continued. They placed the onus of the blame on President Zardari.The official response from the ruling party was defensive, encouraging the public \"to have faith in the government they helped form\". Now that the government has pushed to reduce a proposed tariff hike of 60%, a reduction some credit the violence as being instrumental in achieving.One reason for this rise in Pakistani protesting culture is the involvement of opposition parties in patronising civil unrest. Under Musharraf, protests by Sindhis against the construction of the Kalabagh Dam were sponsored by the People's Party. The lawyers' movement has by and large been sponsored by money and statements by Nawaz Sharif's Muslim League. Danish Cartoon and Salman Rushdie protests are held by scattered religious parties.This intersection of political campaign and patronising protest has led to an easily agitated, violent public. When the mob burned down the LESCO office, they destroyed the records required to prove their case of over-billing. Wrecked government property is replaced with tax money. In this recent development, the Pakistani government has proven to be ineffective in educating the public to push petitions through consumer and standard courts. Other facilities, such as the Monopoly Control Authority, have been contacted in the past to resolve cement and sugar cartels. There are other avenues as well, to which the people could have appealed instead of rioting. As more jobs get cut, which is inevitable in this crisis, an effective outreach to the isolated labour class will also be necessary to curb violence. While there is a set minimum wage, the secretary of labour in Lahore claims the number of labourers registered with them is neglible. Now, time is of the essence to breath life into these projects. As it stands, the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority has stated it opposes relief in the form of lower tarrifs on electricity. Since the attacks on their assets, no officials in either NEPRA or the electric supply companies will allow themselves to appear to be giving concessions to rioters.Foreign involvement in Pakistan's development has changed as well, recent American rhetoric on Pakistan is to \"take money off the table\". Old time partner, China has made plans for nuclear power projects to be built in the country over the next 10 years. But those are some time away.Besides cleaner hydro and wind energy generation, one priority project for Pakistan could be to take advantage of its coal deposits, which are the fifth biggest in the world. There have been plans for coal factories in the past, most famously one by Hong Kong tycoon Gordon Wu. Wu's plans for a coal power plant in Tharparkar, Sindh raised $1.8bn in foreign investment. The plans were realised after the project was cleared by a joint chiefs of staff committee in 1997. The plan was canned inexplicably three months into Sharif's second term. One popular explanation for the canning has been what many call the singular development of the Punjab province, at the expense of Sindh, Balochistan, and the North West Frontier Province. Ironically, there have been demonstrations against government energy projects with the same reasoning as well. Many saw the construction of the Kalabagh Dam as a measure by the Punjab government to assert its hegemony in Sindh.The government can't afford to lose out on such projects, and at the same time can't afford to dole out the same top-down relief in the form of tariff cuts anymore. But when described as having \"No money, no energy, no government\", it's hard to think of what the government can afford to do at all. Pakistan will have to clear up the mistrust that divides it along its provinces, and the government must rethink its current rapport with the public to deal with the countrywide crises to come.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Energy", "World news"], "title": "Basim Usmani: Lights out for Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-10-23T09:53:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "India and Pakistan are on divergent paths in the news today. While India looks to the future after yesterday's launch of its first unmanned moon mission, next door in Pakistan things seem to be spiralling downwards.\"Pakistan stares into the abyss\", the Independent splashes on its front page. Pressure on the army from the US to step up operations against Taliban militants in the lawless mountain region on the Afghan border has led to 200,000 people fleeing their villages, with 20,000 crossing over into Afghanistan.The deaths caused by the fighting are seen as \"collateral damage\", the paper says, in Pakistan's internal war on terror. According to a leaked letter from the former prime minister and main opposition party leader, Nawaz Sharif, Pakistan is going though \"the worst crisis of its history\".The situation in Pakistan is closely entwined with its economy, which is on the brink of collapse. The Pakistani government has been forced to ask the International Monetary Fund for an emergency $5bn bail-out after exhausting other sources, including its allies. The Guardian calculates Pakistan has seven weeks left before its foreign reserves run out and it cannot pay its debts - bankruptcy, in effect.Power cuts, rising food prices and the falling value of the rupee have led to a sense of emergency.The security issue does not look like calming any time soon, with a policy to further involve tribal militias - known as lashkars - in the offensive in the mountains.\"Pakistan plans to arm tens of thousands of anti-Taliban tribal fighters in its western border region,\" says the Washington Post, \"in hopes, shared by the US military, that the nascent militias can replicate the tribal 'awakening' movement that proved decisive in the battle against al-Qaida in Iraq.\" According to the Post, the lashkars will receive Chinese-made assault rifles and other small arms. Asif Ali Zardari, the Pakistani president, has already arranged their purchase, Pakistani officials have said.While the move has been welcomed by the US, relations between Islamabad and Washington could turn decidedly sour after news today of a missile attack by a US military drone on a suspected militant stronghold in the region, killing nine people at a religious school. The US claims the school belonged to a pro-Taliban cleric. A few hours before the attack, the Pakistani parliament passed a unanimous resolution against American military incursions on Pakistani soil.There's no doubt the threat posed by insurgents is real, as the bombing of the Marriott hotel in Islamabad demonstrated last month. But the economic situation and Pakistan's internal security are closely linked. In the Independent, Imran Khan, the former cricketer and now an opposition leader, said he saw \"no solution in sight\" either for the economic or security situation.The Pakistani foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, has warned that the west would suffer if Pakistan did not receive financial help. \"You have to wake up and realise that Pakistan is a victim,\" he told the BBC. \"Pakistan has stood by you ... if you don't stand by Pakistan you will let yourselves down.\"* Based on an extract from the Wrap, theguardian.com's digest of the day's news", "tags": ["Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan in crisis"},{"date": "2008-10-23T07:17:27Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two Pakistani journalists were slightly injured when a bomb went off outside the offices of local newspapers in Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan. The offices of five daily newspapers - Awam, Atemad, Intekhab, Public and Tijarat - were damaged. Once again, the president All Pakistan Newspapers Society has criticised the government for failing to giving adequate protection to journalists, who are being persistently harassed and threatened. (Via Pakistan Press Foundation)", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Media"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Five Pakistani papers hit by bombing"},{"date": "2008-10-21T09:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "After Israelis and Americans, Indians are probably among the least welcome people in Pakistan. Nevertheless, a fortnight ago I crossed over the border from Amritsar to Lahore for the first time to visit the land of (half) my ancestors. While angry rhetoric between the two nuclear-armed neighbours has calmed down significantly over the past decade, some flashpoints such as Kashmir and water disputes still remain, making the local politics still difficult.Pakistan is still on edge, this time primarily from terrorist bombings from Taliban elements that rock the nation almost daily. During my first full day in Karachi, three suicide attacks took place, one blowing up the anti-terrorism taskforce building.Last week, both British and American generals said we needed more troops in Afghanistan to turn the country around. But this ignores the deeper problem \u2013 to win in Afghanistan, first the battle for Pakistan must be won. And right now that's not looking too good.The pessimist's view is convincing: the Taliban have turned on their former masters; people are increasingly angry with US military incursions; the country's finances are very precarious; its politicians remain unpopular and are unlikely to resolve this mess. Furthermore, Afghan volatility is hurting Pakistan, as immigrants, guns and drugs flow over the borders with little to check them.The optimist's view is that Pakistan has been through much worse in its past and still managed to pull through. Already there are growing efforts to challenge each of these problems. When I told the rickshaw driver at the border I was of Indian origin, he only smiled and asked if I wouldn't mind giving him a souvenir from there. And he refused to take any money. Pakistan has a knack for surprises.Last year, a British born and trained journalist of Pakistani origin, Waseem Mahmood, got together a bunch of well-known Pakistani actors and singers to compose a song against terrorism titled Yeh Hum Naheen (This is not us). It quickly became a sensation and inspired a petition against terrorism launched earlier this year that enlisted the help of over 9,000 volunteers to gather over 60 million signatures from across the country. It is being entered into the Guinness Books of Records as the biggest petition ever.Such efforts usually pass under the notice of mainstream media across the world, because the only story out of Pakistan is usually a negative one involving terrorist camps. While there may be some truth to this, less attention is paid to how Pakistanis themselves are trying to deal with the issue.The government recently unveiled an ad campaign stating: \"Terrorists are the enemies of Islam, Pakistan and our people.\" A media organisation \u2013 the Jang Group \u2013 has even launched it own anti-terrorism campaign. Nevertheless, Pakistanis feel helpless because they have little faith in their political leaders and the army has lost much credibility in recent years under General Musharraf. Locally organised lashkars (armies) and jirgas (gatherings) of tribal leaders against the Taliban have been viciously attacked. But, encouragingly, the debate in Pakistan on extremism and terrorism is rapidly following the trajectory of developments here in Britain.The first phase is denial. Both in the UK and Pakistan, Muslims blamed Americans for the existence of terrorism. If we pull out of Iraq and Afghanistan, everything will be fine, the thinking went.But this ignores a deeper problem: why are people choosing to blow up themselves and innocent people as a form of political protest? The existence of suicide terrorism is a problem in itself. Unsurprisingly, the first phase of Mahmood's campaign focuses on owning the issue: Terrorism is our problem and we have to deal with it. Similarly, in the UK, the discussion of terrorism among British Muslims has moved on from blaming others for the problem to owning the issue.And then what? \"There's too many people sitting around producing reports on what the problem is, and not enough people trying to deal with the problem of terrorism,\" Mahmood says. Accordingly, they now focus on getting Pakistanis to talk about terrorism at home, at school and more openly.Talking about extremism out in the open in local communities is more difficult, but is the only way to start a system of detection and prevention. The YHN campaign is ahead of the curve because the rest of Pakistani society has not yet accepted that if you give an inch to religious terrorists they will take a mile. The Taliban have no qualms about blowing up innocent Muslims across Pakistan and trying to destabilise the country \u2013 their aims are political, not religious. Here lies the solution too. Pakistanis are intensely nationalist people, born out of the uncertain nature of the partition and always feeling threatened by their larger neighbour. But as the Taliban becomes a bigger threat to national security rather than India, public opinion will slowly but surely move against them.But as one prominent media executive said under the condition of anonymity, it may take a few more big blasts like the Marriott before Pakistanis realise the true nature of the Taliban. And then a new direction will surely have to be found. As the country's celebrated Urdu poet Faiz Ahmed Faiz once said, the danger is that Pakistan will continue as it has always done.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Sunny Hundal: Pakistan's government and civilian groups are attempting to show the true nature of the Taliban"},{"date": "2008-12-26T17:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "International attention has focused on Pakistan like never before in the weeks following the Mumbai attacks. To quote Bruce Riedel, a former CIA officer and adviser to President-elect Barack Obama: \"All of the world's nightmares come together in Pakistan.\"  Assuming the world does not have the option of turning its back on the country, what can it do to help Pakistan? The short answer is that Pakistan needs economic assistance. The militant extremists who wreak havoc are, for the most part, unemployed and frustrated young men.  If the Pakistani people \u2013 as opposed to the Pakistani military \u2013 were given tangible, visible economic assistance, it would go a long way toward winning over a suspicious populace. After all, starving Pakistanis cannot eat the F-16s sold to their armed forces. With that in mind, here are three suggestions. The short-term solutionThe simplest and quickest way to help Pakistan's economy is to reduce the tariffs imposed on Pakistan's textile sector, which accounts for approximately 60% of Pakistan's exports and more than 60% of its industrial workforce.  Pakistan has one of the world's most dynamic and well-developed textile industries, but in recent years business has shifted to other countries with more favourable tariff regimes.  If the EU and the US, Pakistan's largest textile importers, were to remove or reduce tariffs on Pakistani textiles, experts believe that Pakistan's $7.5bn worth of textile exports would easily triple in value. Since the textile industry is generally labour intensive, the influx of business would immediately result in increased employment. The medium-term solutionThe world should help Pakistan focus on development in the north-west frontier province (NWFP) where problems with extremism are most acute.  The NWFP has tremendous potential for hydro-electric (hydel) projects. A heavy investment in the hydel infrastructure of the NWFP has the potential to almost triple the current total power generating capacity of Pakistan. However, international investors are reluctant to invest because of security concerns, while the Pakistani government lacks the necessary capital. Providing the capital for hydel projects would have a number of benefits. Because civil works account for about 50% to 70% of the overall cost of hydel projects, these projects would provide jobs for unskilled labourers in desperately poor areas.  Additionally, each hydel project would provide the NWFP government with ongoing funds for development projects. Increased electricity production from hydel plants would not only help industries crippled by blackouts, but also reduce the huge cost of imported furnace oil.  The long-term solutionProvide financial support for education. The Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan, set up in 2002 by General Pervez Musharraf, will likely be remembered as one of his most beneficial legacies. Between 2002 and 2007, annual funding for higher education increased from 4.3bn to 14.3bn rupees. Consequently, the number of university students jumped from 135,000 to 316,000.  According to a 2008 USAID report, HEC's \"progress to date has been remarkable \u2013 indeed, in terms of value added, better than any other developing country this team has reviewed over the last two decades.\" In absolute terms, however, less than 4% of college-age students in Pakistan are in higher education, compared to 11% and 20% in India and China, respectively. Pakistan, therefore, needs to spend a tremendous amount more, but it does not have those funds.  The Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) is recognised as the most prestigious college in Pakistan. Above its entrance is a plaque stating that the construction of the main building was made possible by a USAID grant of $10m.  The thousands of graduates whose education was made possible, in part by the generosity of others, may well disagree with American policies. But knowing the source of their education's funding, they are a lot less likely to hate the US.  Why is it then, that since its investment in LUMS, USAID has made no equivalent investments in higher education in Pakistan? Pakistan today is not just a nation on the edge but the tipping point in a global struggle against extremism. By giving the right help, the world can save a lot more than Pakistan.This article was distributed by the Common Ground News Service.", "tags": ["US news", "US foreign policy", "Pakistan", "Mumbai terror attacks", "World news"], "title": "Feisal Hussain Naqvi: US aid to Pakistan will go a long way in combatting global terrorism"},{"date": "2008-12-22T08:28:46Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A suspected US missile strike killed at least seven people today in north-west Pakistan, intelligence officials and a witness said.Yar Mohammad, a villager, said a fortified house was destroyed and local Taliban pulled out seven bodies while cordoning off the scene in the Kari Khel area, about 10 miles (15km) south of Wana, the main town in the South Waziristan tribal area near the Afghan border.Mohammad said he heard a drone aircraft circling the area before the attack at 8.40am local time (3.40am GMT). Two intelligence officials, speaking anonymously, confirmed the strike and casualties.The US has made more than 30 missile strikes since August in Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal areas, targeting al-Qaida and Taliban militants blamed for attacks in Afghanistan. While the missile strikes have killed scores of militants, Pakistan has called them an infringement of its sovereignty and says they undermine its own war on terror.Most of the missiles are believed to have been launched from unmanned spy planes that take off from Afghanistan. Washington rarely confirms or denies the attacks.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US news"], "title": "Deadly missile strike in Pakistan"},{"date": "2008-10-01T17:01:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last Friday the global \"war on terror\" took on a new twist as the US military embarked on a series of fire fights with nuclear-armed ally Pakistan.The strategic backdrop to these events highlights how Washington is failing to both identify and formulate effective policy prescriptions to the evolving security questions posed by al-Qaida's brand of non-state terrorism. Crucially both the recent series of UN meetings and the presidential debate on foreign policy failed to agree upon the limits of hard power in dealing with such entities in the 21st century. Indeed the BBC's latest report suggested that 22 out of 23 countries surveyed believed that the \"war on terror\" had not actually weakened al-Qaida. This is a huge indictment of the failings of post-9/11 US foreign policy. The attacks were widely seen to be the foreign policy \"game changer\" of a generation. It gave the Bush administration an almost blank cheque to pursue military adventures abroad which only lost traction as they declined so spectacularly. As Senator Obama outlined on Friday \"We hadn't caught bin Laden. We hadn't put al-Qaida to rest \u2026 We took our eye off the ball\".Although al-Qaida's infrastructure in Afghanistan was widely seen to have been significantly degraded by the 2001 invasion, the global al-Qaida franchise has blossomed as US troops engaged in massive wars in Muslim countries. Nowhere is this truer than in Iraq. John McCain is right when he quotes bin Laden who called Iraq \"the most important site\" for al-Qaida \u2013 but the al-Qaida of Iraq is and never was the same as its Afghan-based version.What remained of the Afghan al-Qaida \u2013 including their talismanic senior leadership duo of bin Laden and Zawahiri \u2013 most likely fled to the \"tribal badlands\" of northern Pakistan. They moved from one semi-sovereign space to another \u2013 as it is where an absence of traditional government authority exists, that sub-state groups subscribing to supra-state ideologies are able to operate.An effective US policy towards Pakistan and the governance of its borderlands was far too long-sighted for a naive administration that was focused on the immediate objective of overthrowing the Taliban, whilst continuingly obsessing with invading Iraq. That bin Laden was able to escape from the conventional \"showdown\" in Tora Bora and flee to the tribal north of Pakistan only highlighted the flaws in US policy. How to remove the strategic depth of the Taliban and al-Qaida elements without endangering the strategic, but not democratically legitimate, rule of President Musharraf over a nuclear armed country of over 172 million people?The Federally Administrated Tribal Areas (FATA) have become a kind of Mordor for western policy makers. It is a wild west of harsh conservative tribes who live by the Deobandi interpretation of strict Islamic law, and do not take kindly to government control. Some 3.5 million people live in this sovereign \"no mans land\", 70% are unemployed and two-thirds live in poverty. Yet instead of trying to improve conditions, the US-Musharraf policy has shown total inconsistency by oscillating between ceding tribal leaders more power and sending in large troop numbers to attack the area.The most recent government offensive against their own people saw 260,000 residents forced to flee in response to heavy air strikes. As security analysts frequently articulate, the Pakistani army is one that is prepared to wage a conventional war against India but struggles when fighting an internal conflict with itself. The undefined links between the Pakistani intelligence service and the Taliban is evidence again of the blurring of relationships across this dangerous geographical area.Pakistan was one of only two countries surveyed by the BBC that did not hold a majority negative perception of al-Qaida. The issue of Pakistan is one of clear divergence between the presidential candidates concerning their policy towards the tribal areas. Where Obama has stated that he would favour hot pursuit into northern Pakistan, McCain is more reticent, recognising that \"this area on the border has not been governed since the days of Alexander the Great\". With the shift in foreign policy priorities from Iraq to Afghanistan likely to continue after November 4, Obama supporters should look to challenge whether their man's policy will increase or decrease support for bin Laden's ideology.", "tags": ["US news", "John McCain", "Barack Obama", "Pakistan", "World news", "US elections 2008", "Afghanistan", "Al-Qaida", "Taliban", "US politics"], "title": "James Denselow: Getting Pakistan wrong"},{"date": "2009-03-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Britain has offered its full backing for a renewed military offensive inside Pakistan, as UK ministers confirmed the country was now \"part of a single campaign\" alongside Afghanistan.Defence secretary John Hutton said the UK supported targeting Pakistan-based Taliban and al-Qaida positions and urged Europe to begin offering assistance to eradicate insurgents in the tribal regions bordering Afghanistan. Confirming that Britain was being drawn into a widening regional conflict, Hutton said the time had come to target Taliban and al-Qaida havens inside Pakistan. In his most explicit statement of intent against Afghanistan's troubled neighbour, Hutton said that the military objectives in the region must now have \"an equal focus on both countries\". He added: \"AQ [al-Qaida] is in retreat, scuttling across the border into Pakistan. Trying to buy time. Desperate to regroup. That is why there must be no let-up ... there can be no escape, no hiding place.\"He indicated that Britain, which has deep historical ties with Pakistan and remains its largest trading partner in Europe, must play a principal role in supporting the American military effort in the region. The defence secretary said: \"In Europe, we can no longer offload the tough questions about how we deal effectively with AQ and the Taliban in Pakistan to the US. \"The political burden of dealing with the Pakistan side of the border must be shared. And there are many European countries with strong ties to Pakistan that can more effectively share that burden with America.\"However, the US tactic of targeting senior al-Qaida figures using drones inside Pakistan has drawn international condemnation and undermined public support in Pakistan. The country's Foreign Ministry spokesman Abdul Basit warned recently that Islamabad regarded \"drone attacks on our territory as a violation of Pakistan's sovereignty and definitely counter-productive\".An MoD spokesman said that Britain was ready to offer military, political and diplomatic support to a renewed offensive in Pakistan's tribal lands, but what precisely that entailed was dependent on the resources other Nato members were prepared to offer. However, the initial aim would be to support the Pakistani government, rather than place British forces on the ground inside the country. US officials yesterday indicated that attacks along Pakistan's western frontier, apparently by unmanned CIA aircraft, would continue, amid speculation that coalition ground units may begin crossing into Pakistan's borderlands at some point. A Pentagon spokesman, lieutenant-colonel Mark Wright, told the Observer that the US had already offered to launch \"joint-military operations\" with Pakistan's Frontier Corps in the tribal areas. The most recent evidence that Pakistan was becoming an increased focus of concern surfaced last week when Gordon Brown pinpointed al-Qaida in Pakistan as the greatest threat facing the UK in his national security strategy. Two thirds of terror plots uncovered by British intelligence agencies have a Pakistani connection. Additional military resources are also likely to be deployed to the region once Britain withdraws its 4,000-strong force from Iraq this July, with moves to increase troop numbers in Afghanistan from 8,300 to potentially above 10,000 within a year. The new-found focus on Pakistan will dominate Nato's 60th anniversary summit in Strasbourg this week, in which Britain and the US will attempt to drum up more support for the twin Afghanistan and Pakistan - AfPak - mission. President Obama has promised an extra 21,000 troops for Afghanistan on top of the 38,000 US troops already there. By contrast, Nato has sent 32,000, with Germany so far sending just 3,640, France 2,780 and Spain 780. These three countries will, say Nato sources, be under pressure to increase their contingent. Defence officials in Whitehall are increasingly exasperated that, even as the conflict broadens, prominent Nato members are not pulling their weight. Hutton condemned \"the massive leadership imbalance\" between Europe and the US in Nato. He added: \"It's an imbalance set to grow in the coming months as America commits vastly more resources of every kind to the mission in Afghanistan.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "US news", "World news"], "title": "UK backs Pakistan offensive"},{"date": "2009-03-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Britain has offered its full backing for a renewed military offensive inside Pakistan, as UK ministers confirmed the country was now \"part of a single campaign\" alongside Afghanistan.Defence secretary John Hutton said the UK supported targeting Pakistan-based Taliban and al-Qaida positions and urged Europe to begin offering assistance to eradicate insurgents in the tribal regions bordering Afghanistan. Confirming that Britain was being drawn into a widening regional conflict, Hutton said the time had come to target Taliban and al-Qaida havens inside Pakistan. In his most explicit statement of intent against Afghanistan's troubled neighbour, Hutton said that the military objectives in the region must now have \"an equal focus on both countries\". He added: \"AQ [al-Qaida] is in retreat, scuttling across the border into Pakistan. Trying to buy time. Desperate to regroup. That is why there must be no let-up ... there can be no escape, no hiding place.\"He indicated that Britain, which has deep historical ties with Pakistan and remains its largest trading partner in Europe, must play a principal role in supporting the American military effort in the region. The defence secretary said: \"In Europe, we can no longer offload the tough questions about how we deal effectively with AQ and the Taliban in Pakistan to the US. \"The political burden of dealing with the Pakistan side of the border must be shared. And there are many European countries with strong ties to Pakistan that can more effectively share that burden with America.\"However, the US tactic of targeting senior al-Qaida figures using drones inside Pakistan has drawn international condemnation and undermined public support in Pakistan. The country's Foreign Ministry spokesman Abdul Basit warned recently that Islamabad regarded \"drone attacks on our territory as a violation of Pakistan's sovereignty and definitely counter-productive\".An MoD spokesman said that Britain was ready to offer military, political and diplomatic support to a renewed offensive in Pakistan's tribal lands, but what precisely that entailed was dependent on the resources other Nato members were prepared to offer. However, the initial aim would be to support the Pakistani government, rather than place British forces on the ground inside the country. US officials yesterday indicated that attacks along Pakistan's western frontier, apparently by unmanned CIA aircraft, would continue, amid speculation that coalition ground units may begin crossing into Pakistan's borderlands at some point. A Pentagon spokesman, lieutenant-colonel Mark Wright, told the Observer that the US had already offered to launch \"joint-military operations\" with Pakistan's Frontier Corps in the tribal areas. The most recent evidence that Pakistan was becoming an increased focus of concern surfaced last week when Gordon Brown pinpointed al-Qaida in Pakistan as the greatest threat facing the UK in his national security strategy. Two thirds of terror plots uncovered by British intelligence agencies have a Pakistani connection. Additional military resources are also likely to be deployed to the region once Britain withdraws its 4,000-strong force from Iraq this July, with moves to increase troop numbers in Afghanistan from 8,300 to potentially above 10,000 within a year. The new-found focus on Pakistan will dominate Nato's 60th anniversary summit in Strasbourg this week, in which Britain and the US will attempt to drum up more support for the twin Afghanistan and Pakistan - AfPak - mission. President Obama has promised an extra 21,000 troops for Afghanistan on top of the 38,000 US troops already there. By contrast, Nato has sent 32,000, with Germany so far sending just 3,640, France 2,780 and Spain 780. These three countries will, say Nato sources, be under pressure to increase their contingent. Defence officials in Whitehall are increasingly exasperated that, even as the conflict broadens, prominent Nato members are not pulling their weight. Hutton condemned \"the massive leadership imbalance\" between Europe and the US in Nato. He added: \"It's an imbalance set to grow in the coming months as America commits vastly more resources of every kind to the mission in Afghanistan.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "US news", "World news"], "title": "UK backs Pakistan offensive"},{"date": "2009-03-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There is a cardboard memorial surrounded by flowers on the huge grassy roundabout where Lahore policemen were killed defending the Sri Lankan cricket team last week. There's only been a spattering of police to pay respects; all of them have to keep an eye on the roads out of and into Lahore, as well as an ongoing investigation into the Afghan refugee majority colonies where they'll be finding people with no documents, no paper trail, and no trace. Many in and outside of the city are flabbergasted at what they see as a security failure, but this extends much further than the police. And attacks in Lahore could get much worse.Pakistan's supreme court, widely seen as acting on President Zardari's directions, disqualified Punjab majority leader Nawaz Sharif and Chief Minister Shabaz Sharif, and declared governor's rule in the province, rendering Zardari's party colleague Governor Salmaan Taseer a miniature dictator. After governor's rule was declared, Taseer directed a massive shuffling of the police force and a change of the inspector general.The police were asked to play hard politics on behalf of Zardari and Taseer, and arrest PML-N workers. For the days between 27 February and the attack on 3 April, police barriers were set up all round Lahore, and the city began resembling what it was like when Musharraf declared an emergency last year. Which is to be expected, former President Musharraf was the one who appointed Taseer as governor in the first place. When Musharraf declared the state of emergency, on the first two occasions in November 2007, the country spiralled out of control; police officers were blown up outside Lahore's high court, and Benazir Bhutto was killed in Islamabad the following month. With the lawyer's \"long march\" protest, which is seeing activists nationwide gathering in the capital to protest, emergency couldn't have been declared when there were more citizens on the street. Many in Pakistan's major cities are bracing themselves for a return to that 2007 craziness.At this intersection of political infighting and terrorism, the people of Pakistan are presented at a crossroads. Pakistanis could choose to demonstrate against scrooge of religious militancy which has broadened into a culture war that includes girl's schools, cricketers, musicians, and teenage couples as its targets. Or the people could choose to demonstrate against the political infighting, which distracted the Lahore police from the attacks in the first place.Since the lifting of martial law, the outcome of People's party and Muslim League's governance has conformed to my low expectations. PML-N chair Nawaz Sharif has remained unable to restore the judiciary, an issue both he and Zardari took up when they were proslytising sacked Pakistan's chief justice Chaudhry Iftikhar in 2006 during protests to overthrow Musharraf. At present Zardari won't risk making any deals with the judiciary because he's wary about the deal he made with Musharraf to come to power coming under scrutiny. That, of course, is what Pakistanis want: it was never their intention for the least popular personality to become the president of the country. Many critics, however, think it will take more than simply disqualifying Zardari.\"The people of Pakistan still haven't drawn the lines of war yet,\" said Dr Shuja, head of the department of philosophy at Government College Lahore. \"Those who sympathise with the gunmen who attacked the Sri Lankans could live in any mosque, any madrasa in the city, but most Pakistanis are in denial about the role of religion in such attacks. They'll have to acknowledge it.\" Shuja continued, \"It's going to be a painful process, one that will take some time.\"But how long?The attack on cricket elucidates the Islamist's position on what is called Pakistan's second major religion, but that does not make people more trusting of the government. The knee-jerk reaction that blames the \"agencies\", or intelligence agencies of Pakistan, the US and India, is as strong as ever. But it's far-fetched: agencies don't send men who fumble grenades, or are incapable of hitting a bus with a rocket on a narrow road. Especially damning is the fact that all 12 gunmen escaped unwounded to Ferdoz market, nestled by Lahore's biggest market for electronics, Hafiz Center, at 10 in the morning. If such men were able to discharge so much ammunition at the cricketers and flee, imagine what trained mujahideen could do. Those who were recently fighting in Swat, Bajaur, or any area of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas could make short work of Lahore's colleges, government buildings or busy markets. There could be armed militia's forcing girls out of Lahore's schools, just like Swat's, in six months' time. With the \"long march\" coming up, there will be no shortage of targets for such gunmen in the nation's capital. Herein, it's up to Pakistanis to race against the clock.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Sri Lanka cricket team attack", "World news"], "title": "Basim Usmani: The Sri Lanka cricket attack forces Pakistan out of denial"},{"date": "2009-03-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Britain has offered its full backing for a renewed military offensive inside Pakistan, as UK ministers confirmed the country was now \"part of a single campaign\" alongside Afghanistan.Defence secretary John Hutton said the UK supported targeting Pakistan-based Taliban and al-Qaida positions and urged Europe to begin offering assistance to eradicate insurgents in the tribal regions bordering Afghanistan. Confirming that Britain was being drawn into a widening regional conflict, Hutton said the time had come to target Taliban and al-Qaida havens inside Pakistan. In his most explicit statement of intent against Afghanistan's troubled neighbour, Hutton said that the military objectives in the region must now have \"an equal focus on both countries\". He added: \"AQ [al-Qaida] is in retreat, scuttling across the border into Pakistan. Trying to buy time. Desperate to regroup. That is why there must be no let-up ... there can be no escape, no hiding place.\"He indicated that Britain, which has deep historical ties with Pakistan and remains its largest trading partner in Europe, must play a principal role in supporting the American military effort in the region. The defence secretary said: \"In Europe, we can no longer offload the tough questions about how we deal effectively with AQ and the Taliban in Pakistan to the US. \"The political burden of dealing with the Pakistan side of the border must be shared. And there are many European countries with strong ties to Pakistan that can more effectively share that burden with America.\"However, the US tactic of targeting senior al-Qaida figures using drones inside Pakistan has drawn international condemnation and undermined public support in Pakistan. The country's Foreign Ministry spokesman Abdul Basit warned recently that Islamabad regarded \"drone attacks on our territory as a violation of Pakistan's sovereignty and definitely counter-productive\".An MoD spokesman said that Britain was ready to offer military, political and diplomatic support to a renewed offensive in Pakistan's tribal lands, but what precisely that entailed was dependent on the resources other Nato members were prepared to offer. However, the initial aim would be to support the Pakistani government, rather than place British forces on the ground inside the country. US officials yesterday indicated that attacks along Pakistan's western frontier, apparently by unmanned CIA aircraft, would continue, amid speculation that coalition ground units may begin crossing into Pakistan's borderlands at some point. A Pentagon spokesman, lieutenant-colonel Mark Wright, told the Observer that the US had already offered to launch \"joint-military operations\" with Pakistan's Frontier Corps in the tribal areas. The most recent evidence that Pakistan was becoming an increased focus of concern surfaced last week when Gordon Brown pinpointed al-Qaida in Pakistan as the greatest threat facing the UK in his national security strategy. Two thirds of terror plots uncovered by British intelligence agencies have a Pakistani connection. Additional military resources are also likely to be deployed to the region once Britain withdraws its 4,000-strong force from Iraq this July, with moves to increase troop numbers in Afghanistan from 8,300 to potentially above 10,000 within a year. The new-found focus on Pakistan will dominate Nato's 60th anniversary summit in Strasbourg this week, in which Britain and the US will attempt to drum up more support for the twin Afghanistan and Pakistan - AfPak - mission. President Obama has promised an extra 21,000 troops for Afghanistan on top of the 38,000 US troops already there. By contrast, Nato has sent 32,000, with Germany so far sending just 3,640, France 2,780 and Spain 780. These three countries will, say Nato sources, be under pressure to increase their contingent. Defence officials in Whitehall are increasingly exasperated that, even as the conflict broadens, prominent Nato members are not pulling their weight. Hutton condemned \"the massive leadership imbalance\" between Europe and the US in Nato. He added: \"It's an imbalance set to grow in the coming months as America commits vastly more resources of every kind to the mission in Afghanistan.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "US news", "World news"], "title": "UK backs Pakistan offensive"},{"date": "2009-03-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There is a cardboard memorial surrounded by flowers on the huge grassy roundabout where Lahore policemen were killed defending the Sri Lankan cricket team last week. There's only been a spattering of police to pay respects; all of them have to keep an eye on the roads out of and into Lahore, as well as an ongoing investigation into the Afghan refugee majority colonies where they'll be finding people with no documents, no paper trail, and no trace. Many in and outside of the city are flabbergasted at what they see as a security failure, but this extends much further than the police. And attacks in Lahore could get much worse.Pakistan's supreme court, widely seen as acting on President Zardari's directions, disqualified Punjab majority leader Nawaz Sharif and Chief Minister Shabaz Sharif, and declared governor's rule in the province, rendering Zardari's party colleague Governor Salmaan Taseer a miniature dictator. After governor's rule was declared, Taseer directed a massive shuffling of the police force and a change of the inspector general.The police were asked to play hard politics on behalf of Zardari and Taseer, and arrest PML-N workers. For the days between 27 February and the attack on 3 April, police barriers were set up all round Lahore, and the city began resembling what it was like when Musharraf declared an emergency last year. Which is to be expected, former President Musharraf was the one who appointed Taseer as governor in the first place. When Musharraf declared the state of emergency, on the first two occasions in November 2007, the country spiralled out of control; police officers were blown up outside Lahore's high court, and Benazir Bhutto was killed in Islamabad the following month. With the lawyer's \"long march\" protest, which is seeing activists nationwide gathering in the capital to protest, emergency couldn't have been declared when there were more citizens on the street. Many in Pakistan's major cities are bracing themselves for a return to that 2007 craziness.At this intersection of political infighting and terrorism, the people of Pakistan are presented at a crossroads. Pakistanis could choose to demonstrate against scrooge of religious militancy which has broadened into a culture war that includes girl's schools, cricketers, musicians, and teenage couples as its targets. Or the people could choose to demonstrate against the political infighting, which distracted the Lahore police from the attacks in the first place.Since the lifting of martial law, the outcome of People's party and Muslim League's governance has conformed to my low expectations. PML-N chair Nawaz Sharif has remained unable to restore the judiciary, an issue both he and Zardari took up when they were proslytising sacked Pakistan's chief justice Chaudhry Iftikhar in 2006 during protests to overthrow Musharraf. At present Zardari won't risk making any deals with the judiciary because he's wary about the deal he made with Musharraf to come to power coming under scrutiny. That, of course, is what Pakistanis want: it was never their intention for the least popular personality to become the president of the country. Many critics, however, think it will take more than simply disqualifying Zardari.\"The people of Pakistan still haven't drawn the lines of war yet,\" said Dr Shuja, head of the department of philosophy at Government College Lahore. \"Those who sympathise with the gunmen who attacked the Sri Lankans could live in any mosque, any madrasa in the city, but most Pakistanis are in denial about the role of religion in such attacks. They'll have to acknowledge it.\" Shuja continued, \"It's going to be a painful process, one that will take some time.\"But how long?The attack on cricket elucidates the Islamist's position on what is called Pakistan's second major religion, but that does not make people more trusting of the government. The knee-jerk reaction that blames the \"agencies\", or intelligence agencies of Pakistan, the US and India, is as strong as ever. But it's far-fetched: agencies don't send men who fumble grenades, or are incapable of hitting a bus with a rocket on a narrow road. Especially damning is the fact that all 12 gunmen escaped unwounded to Ferdoz market, nestled by Lahore's biggest market for electronics, Hafiz Center, at 10 in the morning. If such men were able to discharge so much ammunition at the cricketers and flee, imagine what trained mujahideen could do. Those who were recently fighting in Swat, Bajaur, or any area of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas could make short work of Lahore's colleges, government buildings or busy markets. There could be armed militia's forcing girls out of Lahore's schools, just like Swat's, in six months' time. With the \"long march\" coming up, there will be no shortage of targets for such gunmen in the nation's capital. Herein, it's up to Pakistanis to race against the clock.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Sri Lanka cricket team attack", "World news"], "title": "Basim Usmani: The Sri Lanka cricket attack forces Pakistan out of denial"},{"date": "2009-03-05T18:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A section of the press, while dwelling on the dastardly attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team, has attempted to depict Pakistan as a \"failing state\". This biased and far-fetched narrative has often been resurrected after every terrorist incident in Pakistan. Such conjectures are doing more harm than good in our joint fight against extremism and terrorism and the cause of democracy in Pakistan.It would be an extreme travesty of facts if one is made to believe that institutions in Pakistan are not working. Terrorism is a phenomenon which can occur anytime, anywhere. But by making an incident, however unfortunate it may be, look like failure of a sovereign state is not only unfair but also an attempt to malign Pakistan.It is time that the media came out of the denial mode about the reality of today's Pakistan. The fact is that despite all challenges, the government institutions in Pakistan have been working efficiently and with great professionalism and resilience. We owe it to our security institutions that hundreds of terrorists were apprehended or killed during the past seven years. Similarly over 2,000 Pakistani military and paramilitary personnel laid down their lives while confronting extremists and terrorists.One is surprised to see the ease and naivet\u00e9 with which some analysts have ignored the efforts of the government of Pakistan in tackling the colossal challenge of terrorism not of Pakistan's making. Let the international community know that it owes its safety and security to the sincere, determined and incessant efforts of Pakistan to fight this scourge.Instead of appreciating Pakistan's sterling role in counter-terrorism efforts, for which Pakistan has been paying a heavy price in terms of men and material more than any other country in the world, it is unfortunate to listen to a crescendo of doomsday prophecies churned out by experts on terrorism. Sadly, very little has appeared in the media about helping the democratic government in Pakistan in its efforts to tackle the menace of violent extremism. The uncanny remarks about the alleged \"deficit of will\" to fight terrorism can only encourage the extremists and terrorists to continue with their nefarious activities. In fact, such comments may provide oxygen to terrorists to thrive on media coverage they receive and create an illusion of their victory.There should be no doubt about the sincerity and determination of the government of Pakistan and its military and paramilitary institutions in taking on the challenge of terrorism. What Pakistan needs is realistic reporting without indulging in cut-and-paste jobs on irrelevant issues while commenting on a particular incident.Last but not the least, it was not bad security which caused 9/11 in the US or 7/7 in Britain. No sporting activity or international event was stopped during the years when the IRA was constantly indulging in subversive activities, including the one in which then prime minister Baroness Margaret Thatcher narrowly escaped the attack.", "tags": ["Sri Lanka cricket team attack", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Sultana Rizvi: In defence of Pakistan"},{"date": "2009-03-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Britain has offered its full backing for a renewed military offensive inside Pakistan, as UK ministers confirmed the country was now \"part of a single campaign\" alongside Afghanistan.Defence secretary John Hutton said the UK supported targeting Pakistan-based Taliban and al-Qaida positions and urged Europe to begin offering assistance to eradicate insurgents in the tribal regions bordering Afghanistan. Confirming that Britain was being drawn into a widening regional conflict, Hutton said the time had come to target Taliban and al-Qaida havens inside Pakistan. In his most explicit statement of intent against Afghanistan's troubled neighbour, Hutton said that the military objectives in the region must now have \"an equal focus on both countries\". He added: \"AQ [al-Qaida] is in retreat, scuttling across the border into Pakistan. Trying to buy time. Desperate to regroup. That is why there must be no let-up ... there can be no escape, no hiding place.\"He indicated that Britain, which has deep historical ties with Pakistan and remains its largest trading partner in Europe, must play a principal role in supporting the American military effort in the region. The defence secretary said: \"In Europe, we can no longer offload the tough questions about how we deal effectively with AQ and the Taliban in Pakistan to the US. \"The political burden of dealing with the Pakistan side of the border must be shared. And there are many European countries with strong ties to Pakistan that can more effectively share that burden with America.\"However, the US tactic of targeting senior al-Qaida figures using drones inside Pakistan has drawn international condemnation and undermined public support in Pakistan. The country's Foreign Ministry spokesman Abdul Basit warned recently that Islamabad regarded \"drone attacks on our territory as a violation of Pakistan's sovereignty and definitely counter-productive\".An MoD spokesman said that Britain was ready to offer military, political and diplomatic support to a renewed offensive in Pakistan's tribal lands, but what precisely that entailed was dependent on the resources other Nato members were prepared to offer. However, the initial aim would be to support the Pakistani government, rather than place British forces on the ground inside the country. US officials yesterday indicated that attacks along Pakistan's western frontier, apparently by unmanned CIA aircraft, would continue, amid speculation that coalition ground units may begin crossing into Pakistan's borderlands at some point. A Pentagon spokesman, lieutenant-colonel Mark Wright, told the Observer that the US had already offered to launch \"joint-military operations\" with Pakistan's Frontier Corps in the tribal areas. The most recent evidence that Pakistan was becoming an increased focus of concern surfaced last week when Gordon Brown pinpointed al-Qaida in Pakistan as the greatest threat facing the UK in his national security strategy. Two thirds of terror plots uncovered by British intelligence agencies have a Pakistani connection. Additional military resources are also likely to be deployed to the region once Britain withdraws its 4,000-strong force from Iraq this July, with moves to increase troop numbers in Afghanistan from 8,300 to potentially above 10,000 within a year. The new-found focus on Pakistan will dominate Nato's 60th anniversary summit in Strasbourg this week, in which Britain and the US will attempt to drum up more support for the twin Afghanistan and Pakistan - AfPak - mission. President Obama has promised an extra 21,000 troops for Afghanistan on top of the 38,000 US troops already there. By contrast, Nato has sent 32,000, with Germany so far sending just 3,640, France 2,780 and Spain 780. These three countries will, say Nato sources, be under pressure to increase their contingent. Defence officials in Whitehall are increasingly exasperated that, even as the conflict broadens, prominent Nato members are not pulling their weight. Hutton condemned \"the massive leadership imbalance\" between Europe and the US in Nato. He added: \"It's an imbalance set to grow in the coming months as America commits vastly more resources of every kind to the mission in Afghanistan.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "US news", "World news"], "title": "UK backs Pakistan offensive"},{"date": "2009-03-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There is a cardboard memorial surrounded by flowers on the huge grassy roundabout where Lahore policemen were killed defending the Sri Lankan cricket team last week. There's only been a spattering of police to pay respects; all of them have to keep an eye on the roads out of and into Lahore, as well as an ongoing investigation into the Afghan refugee majority colonies where they'll be finding people with no documents, no paper trail, and no trace. Many in and outside of the city are flabbergasted at what they see as a security failure, but this extends much further than the police. And attacks in Lahore could get much worse.Pakistan's supreme court, widely seen as acting on President Zardari's directions, disqualified Punjab majority leader Nawaz Sharif and Chief Minister Shabaz Sharif, and declared governor's rule in the province, rendering Zardari's party colleague Governor Salmaan Taseer a miniature dictator. After governor's rule was declared, Taseer directed a massive shuffling of the police force and a change of the inspector general.The police were asked to play hard politics on behalf of Zardari and Taseer, and arrest PML-N workers. For the days between 27 February and the attack on 3 April, police barriers were set up all round Lahore, and the city began resembling what it was like when Musharraf declared an emergency last year. Which is to be expected, former President Musharraf was the one who appointed Taseer as governor in the first place. When Musharraf declared the state of emergency, on the first two occasions in November 2007, the country spiralled out of control; police officers were blown up outside Lahore's high court, and Benazir Bhutto was killed in Islamabad the following month. With the lawyer's \"long march\" protest, which is seeing activists nationwide gathering in the capital to protest, emergency couldn't have been declared when there were more citizens on the street. Many in Pakistan's major cities are bracing themselves for a return to that 2007 craziness.At this intersection of political infighting and terrorism, the people of Pakistan are presented at a crossroads. Pakistanis could choose to demonstrate against scrooge of religious militancy which has broadened into a culture war that includes girl's schools, cricketers, musicians, and teenage couples as its targets. Or the people could choose to demonstrate against the political infighting, which distracted the Lahore police from the attacks in the first place.Since the lifting of martial law, the outcome of People's party and Muslim League's governance has conformed to my low expectations. PML-N chair Nawaz Sharif has remained unable to restore the judiciary, an issue both he and Zardari took up when they were proslytising sacked Pakistan's chief justice Chaudhry Iftikhar in 2006 during protests to overthrow Musharraf. At present Zardari won't risk making any deals with the judiciary because he's wary about the deal he made with Musharraf to come to power coming under scrutiny. That, of course, is what Pakistanis want: it was never their intention for the least popular personality to become the president of the country. Many critics, however, think it will take more than simply disqualifying Zardari.\"The people of Pakistan still haven't drawn the lines of war yet,\" said Dr Shuja, head of the department of philosophy at Government College Lahore. \"Those who sympathise with the gunmen who attacked the Sri Lankans could live in any mosque, any madrasa in the city, but most Pakistanis are in denial about the role of religion in such attacks. They'll have to acknowledge it.\" Shuja continued, \"It's going to be a painful process, one that will take some time.\"But how long?The attack on cricket elucidates the Islamist's position on what is called Pakistan's second major religion, but that does not make people more trusting of the government. The knee-jerk reaction that blames the \"agencies\", or intelligence agencies of Pakistan, the US and India, is as strong as ever. But it's far-fetched: agencies don't send men who fumble grenades, or are incapable of hitting a bus with a rocket on a narrow road. Especially damning is the fact that all 12 gunmen escaped unwounded to Ferdoz market, nestled by Lahore's biggest market for electronics, Hafiz Center, at 10 in the morning. If such men were able to discharge so much ammunition at the cricketers and flee, imagine what trained mujahideen could do. Those who were recently fighting in Swat, Bajaur, or any area of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas could make short work of Lahore's colleges, government buildings or busy markets. There could be armed militia's forcing girls out of Lahore's schools, just like Swat's, in six months' time. With the \"long march\" coming up, there will be no shortage of targets for such gunmen in the nation's capital. Herein, it's up to Pakistanis to race against the clock.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Sri Lanka cricket team attack", "World news"], "title": "Basim Usmani: The Sri Lanka cricket attack forces Pakistan out of denial"},{"date": "2009-03-05T18:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A section of the press, while dwelling on the dastardly attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team, has attempted to depict Pakistan as a \"failing state\". This biased and far-fetched narrative has often been resurrected after every terrorist incident in Pakistan. Such conjectures are doing more harm than good in our joint fight against extremism and terrorism and the cause of democracy in Pakistan.It would be an extreme travesty of facts if one is made to believe that institutions in Pakistan are not working. Terrorism is a phenomenon which can occur anytime, anywhere. But by making an incident, however unfortunate it may be, look like failure of a sovereign state is not only unfair but also an attempt to malign Pakistan.It is time that the media came out of the denial mode about the reality of today's Pakistan. The fact is that despite all challenges, the government institutions in Pakistan have been working efficiently and with great professionalism and resilience. We owe it to our security institutions that hundreds of terrorists were apprehended or killed during the past seven years. Similarly over 2,000 Pakistani military and paramilitary personnel laid down their lives while confronting extremists and terrorists.One is surprised to see the ease and naivet\u00e9 with which some analysts have ignored the efforts of the government of Pakistan in tackling the colossal challenge of terrorism not of Pakistan's making. Let the international community know that it owes its safety and security to the sincere, determined and incessant efforts of Pakistan to fight this scourge.Instead of appreciating Pakistan's sterling role in counter-terrorism efforts, for which Pakistan has been paying a heavy price in terms of men and material more than any other country in the world, it is unfortunate to listen to a crescendo of doomsday prophecies churned out by experts on terrorism. Sadly, very little has appeared in the media about helping the democratic government in Pakistan in its efforts to tackle the menace of violent extremism. The uncanny remarks about the alleged \"deficit of will\" to fight terrorism can only encourage the extremists and terrorists to continue with their nefarious activities. In fact, such comments may provide oxygen to terrorists to thrive on media coverage they receive and create an illusion of their victory.There should be no doubt about the sincerity and determination of the government of Pakistan and its military and paramilitary institutions in taking on the challenge of terrorism. What Pakistan needs is realistic reporting without indulging in cut-and-paste jobs on irrelevant issues while commenting on a particular incident.Last but not the least, it was not bad security which caused 9/11 in the US or 7/7 in Britain. No sporting activity or international event was stopped during the years when the IRA was constantly indulging in subversive activities, including the one in which then prime minister Baroness Margaret Thatcher narrowly escaped the attack.", "tags": ["Sri Lanka cricket team attack", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Sultana Rizvi: In defence of Pakistan"},{"date": "2009-03-13T18:45:52Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's warring government and opposition are moving towards to a reconciliation deal partly brokered by the UK that could pull the country away from political collapse.Sources in Asif Zardari's presidential administration and the biggest opposition party, led by Nawaz Sharif, said detailed discussions were under way. A deal would address the issue of the judges that Sharif and a movement of lawyers want restored to office, and a way of reinstating the provincial government in Punjab, which had been run by Sharif's party until Islamabad dismissed it last month. Lifting a legal bar to Sharif and his brother Shahbaz standing for parliament would be part of the package.The British foreign secretary, David Miliband, called Sharif today to discuss the terms of an agreement, urging him to reach a compromise. US diplomats are also deeply involved, and Pakistan's powerful military looks to be pressing for a political settlement, with the army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, today meeting Zardari and the prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, in Islamabad.\"Conversations are going on internally [within the country] and externally,\" said a close aide to Zardari. \"Now it depends if PML-N [Sharif's party] accepts\".Sharif has so far been determined to push forward with his showdown with the government. But the last-ditch intervention of the UK and US appears to have persuaded him to consider cutting a deal.\"Things are still a bit raw but there is definitely some activity,\" said an insider in Sharif's party. \"The army is also showing some concern. They [the government] have to do something.\"Zardari has finally outsmarted himself.\"Sharif's party has joined the lawyers to take part in a \"long march\" this week to the capital, where a mass protest is planned for 16 March, raising fears of serious civil unrest that could force the army to step in. They are calling for an independent judiciary, especially the reinstatement of the chief justice removed by the former military ruler Pervez Musharraf in 2007. The government has cracked down hard on the demonstrators, arresting hundreds and blocking roads across the country.Whether or not Sharif and Zardari reach a compromise, the march is likely to continue, although the potential for conflict could be lessened.\"These people [the government] are opening the doors to dialogue again,\" said Zulfikhar Khosa, a senior member of Sharif's party.Zardari's Pakistan People's party accuses Sharif of using the issue of the judges to try and bring down the government, which was elected in February 2008, after more than eight years of military rule.Given the harsh clampdown, it is unclear how many protesters will be able to make it to Islamabad for Monday.Pakistan is a key anti-terrorism ally of the west but is struggling against the twin challenges of extremist violence and an economy in tailspin.London and Washington fear that a political clash could paralyse the government and push the nuclear-armed country towards implosion.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "World news", "US military"], "title": "Scramble for Pakistan political settlement"},{"date": "2009-03-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Britain has offered its full backing for a renewed military offensive inside Pakistan, as UK ministers confirmed the country was now \"part of a single campaign\" alongside Afghanistan.Defence secretary John Hutton said the UK supported targeting Pakistan-based Taliban and al-Qaida positions and urged Europe to begin offering assistance to eradicate insurgents in the tribal regions bordering Afghanistan. Confirming that Britain was being drawn into a widening regional conflict, Hutton said the time had come to target Taliban and al-Qaida havens inside Pakistan. In his most explicit statement of intent against Afghanistan's troubled neighbour, Hutton said that the military objectives in the region must now have \"an equal focus on both countries\". He added: \"AQ [al-Qaida] is in retreat, scuttling across the border into Pakistan. Trying to buy time. Desperate to regroup. That is why there must be no let-up ... there can be no escape, no hiding place.\"He indicated that Britain, which has deep historical ties with Pakistan and remains its largest trading partner in Europe, must play a principal role in supporting the American military effort in the region. The defence secretary said: \"In Europe, we can no longer offload the tough questions about how we deal effectively with AQ and the Taliban in Pakistan to the US. \"The political burden of dealing with the Pakistan side of the border must be shared. And there are many European countries with strong ties to Pakistan that can more effectively share that burden with America.\"However, the US tactic of targeting senior al-Qaida figures using drones inside Pakistan has drawn international condemnation and undermined public support in Pakistan. The country's Foreign Ministry spokesman Abdul Basit warned recently that Islamabad regarded \"drone attacks on our territory as a violation of Pakistan's sovereignty and definitely counter-productive\".An MoD spokesman said that Britain was ready to offer military, political and diplomatic support to a renewed offensive in Pakistan's tribal lands, but what precisely that entailed was dependent on the resources other Nato members were prepared to offer. However, the initial aim would be to support the Pakistani government, rather than place British forces on the ground inside the country. US officials yesterday indicated that attacks along Pakistan's western frontier, apparently by unmanned CIA aircraft, would continue, amid speculation that coalition ground units may begin crossing into Pakistan's borderlands at some point. A Pentagon spokesman, lieutenant-colonel Mark Wright, told the Observer that the US had already offered to launch \"joint-military operations\" with Pakistan's Frontier Corps in the tribal areas. The most recent evidence that Pakistan was becoming an increased focus of concern surfaced last week when Gordon Brown pinpointed al-Qaida in Pakistan as the greatest threat facing the UK in his national security strategy. Two thirds of terror plots uncovered by British intelligence agencies have a Pakistani connection. Additional military resources are also likely to be deployed to the region once Britain withdraws its 4,000-strong force from Iraq this July, with moves to increase troop numbers in Afghanistan from 8,300 to potentially above 10,000 within a year. The new-found focus on Pakistan will dominate Nato's 60th anniversary summit in Strasbourg this week, in which Britain and the US will attempt to drum up more support for the twin Afghanistan and Pakistan - AfPak - mission. President Obama has promised an extra 21,000 troops for Afghanistan on top of the 38,000 US troops already there. By contrast, Nato has sent 32,000, with Germany so far sending just 3,640, France 2,780 and Spain 780. These three countries will, say Nato sources, be under pressure to increase their contingent. Defence officials in Whitehall are increasingly exasperated that, even as the conflict broadens, prominent Nato members are not pulling their weight. Hutton condemned \"the massive leadership imbalance\" between Europe and the US in Nato. He added: \"It's an imbalance set to grow in the coming months as America commits vastly more resources of every kind to the mission in Afghanistan.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "US news", "World news"], "title": "UK backs Pakistan offensive"},{"date": "2009-03-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There is a cardboard memorial surrounded by flowers on the huge grassy roundabout where Lahore policemen were killed defending the Sri Lankan cricket team last week. There's only been a spattering of police to pay respects; all of them have to keep an eye on the roads out of and into Lahore, as well as an ongoing investigation into the Afghan refugee majority colonies where they'll be finding people with no documents, no paper trail, and no trace. Many in and outside of the city are flabbergasted at what they see as a security failure, but this extends much further than the police. And attacks in Lahore could get much worse.Pakistan's supreme court, widely seen as acting on President Zardari's directions, disqualified Punjab majority leader Nawaz Sharif and Chief Minister Shabaz Sharif, and declared governor's rule in the province, rendering Zardari's party colleague Governor Salmaan Taseer a miniature dictator. After governor's rule was declared, Taseer directed a massive shuffling of the police force and a change of the inspector general.The police were asked to play hard politics on behalf of Zardari and Taseer, and arrest PML-N workers. For the days between 27 February and the attack on 3 April, police barriers were set up all round Lahore, and the city began resembling what it was like when Musharraf declared an emergency last year. Which is to be expected, former President Musharraf was the one who appointed Taseer as governor in the first place. When Musharraf declared the state of emergency, on the first two occasions in November 2007, the country spiralled out of control; police officers were blown up outside Lahore's high court, and Benazir Bhutto was killed in Islamabad the following month. With the lawyer's \"long march\" protest, which is seeing activists nationwide gathering in the capital to protest, emergency couldn't have been declared when there were more citizens on the street. Many in Pakistan's major cities are bracing themselves for a return to that 2007 craziness.At this intersection of political infighting and terrorism, the people of Pakistan are presented at a crossroads. Pakistanis could choose to demonstrate against scrooge of religious militancy which has broadened into a culture war that includes girl's schools, cricketers, musicians, and teenage couples as its targets. Or the people could choose to demonstrate against the political infighting, which distracted the Lahore police from the attacks in the first place.Since the lifting of martial law, the outcome of People's party and Muslim League's governance has conformed to my low expectations. PML-N chair Nawaz Sharif has remained unable to restore the judiciary, an issue both he and Zardari took up when they were proslytising sacked Pakistan's chief justice Chaudhry Iftikhar in 2006 during protests to overthrow Musharraf. At present Zardari won't risk making any deals with the judiciary because he's wary about the deal he made with Musharraf to come to power coming under scrutiny. That, of course, is what Pakistanis want: it was never their intention for the least popular personality to become the president of the country. Many critics, however, think it will take more than simply disqualifying Zardari.\"The people of Pakistan still haven't drawn the lines of war yet,\" said Dr Shuja, head of the department of philosophy at Government College Lahore. \"Those who sympathise with the gunmen who attacked the Sri Lankans could live in any mosque, any madrasa in the city, but most Pakistanis are in denial about the role of religion in such attacks. They'll have to acknowledge it.\" Shuja continued, \"It's going to be a painful process, one that will take some time.\"But how long?The attack on cricket elucidates the Islamist's position on what is called Pakistan's second major religion, but that does not make people more trusting of the government. The knee-jerk reaction that blames the \"agencies\", or intelligence agencies of Pakistan, the US and India, is as strong as ever. But it's far-fetched: agencies don't send men who fumble grenades, or are incapable of hitting a bus with a rocket on a narrow road. Especially damning is the fact that all 12 gunmen escaped unwounded to Ferdoz market, nestled by Lahore's biggest market for electronics, Hafiz Center, at 10 in the morning. If such men were able to discharge so much ammunition at the cricketers and flee, imagine what trained mujahideen could do. Those who were recently fighting in Swat, Bajaur, or any area of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas could make short work of Lahore's colleges, government buildings or busy markets. There could be armed militia's forcing girls out of Lahore's schools, just like Swat's, in six months' time. With the \"long march\" coming up, there will be no shortage of targets for such gunmen in the nation's capital. Herein, it's up to Pakistanis to race against the clock.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Sri Lanka cricket team attack", "World news"], "title": "Basim Usmani: The Sri Lanka cricket attack forces Pakistan out of denial"},{"date": "2009-03-05T18:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A section of the press, while dwelling on the dastardly attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team, has attempted to depict Pakistan as a \"failing state\". This biased and far-fetched narrative has often been resurrected after every terrorist incident in Pakistan. Such conjectures are doing more harm than good in our joint fight against extremism and terrorism and the cause of democracy in Pakistan.It would be an extreme travesty of facts if one is made to believe that institutions in Pakistan are not working. Terrorism is a phenomenon which can occur anytime, anywhere. But by making an incident, however unfortunate it may be, look like failure of a sovereign state is not only unfair but also an attempt to malign Pakistan.It is time that the media came out of the denial mode about the reality of today's Pakistan. The fact is that despite all challenges, the government institutions in Pakistan have been working efficiently and with great professionalism and resilience. We owe it to our security institutions that hundreds of terrorists were apprehended or killed during the past seven years. Similarly over 2,000 Pakistani military and paramilitary personnel laid down their lives while confronting extremists and terrorists.One is surprised to see the ease and naivet\u00e9 with which some analysts have ignored the efforts of the government of Pakistan in tackling the colossal challenge of terrorism not of Pakistan's making. Let the international community know that it owes its safety and security to the sincere, determined and incessant efforts of Pakistan to fight this scourge.Instead of appreciating Pakistan's sterling role in counter-terrorism efforts, for which Pakistan has been paying a heavy price in terms of men and material more than any other country in the world, it is unfortunate to listen to a crescendo of doomsday prophecies churned out by experts on terrorism. Sadly, very little has appeared in the media about helping the democratic government in Pakistan in its efforts to tackle the menace of violent extremism. The uncanny remarks about the alleged \"deficit of will\" to fight terrorism can only encourage the extremists and terrorists to continue with their nefarious activities. In fact, such comments may provide oxygen to terrorists to thrive on media coverage they receive and create an illusion of their victory.There should be no doubt about the sincerity and determination of the government of Pakistan and its military and paramilitary institutions in taking on the challenge of terrorism. What Pakistan needs is realistic reporting without indulging in cut-and-paste jobs on irrelevant issues while commenting on a particular incident.Last but not the least, it was not bad security which caused 9/11 in the US or 7/7 in Britain. No sporting activity or international event was stopped during the years when the IRA was constantly indulging in subversive activities, including the one in which then prime minister Baroness Margaret Thatcher narrowly escaped the attack.", "tags": ["Sri Lanka cricket team attack", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Sultana Rizvi: In defence of Pakistan"},{"date": "2009-03-13T18:45:52Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's warring government and opposition are moving towards to a reconciliation deal partly brokered by the UK that could pull the country away from political collapse.Sources in Asif Zardari's presidential administration and the biggest opposition party, led by Nawaz Sharif, said detailed discussions were under way. A deal would address the issue of the judges that Sharif and a movement of lawyers want restored to office, and a way of reinstating the provincial government in Punjab, which had been run by Sharif's party until Islamabad dismissed it last month. Lifting a legal bar to Sharif and his brother Shahbaz standing for parliament would be part of the package.The British foreign secretary, David Miliband, called Sharif today to discuss the terms of an agreement, urging him to reach a compromise. US diplomats are also deeply involved, and Pakistan's powerful military looks to be pressing for a political settlement, with the army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, today meeting Zardari and the prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, in Islamabad.\"Conversations are going on internally [within the country] and externally,\" said a close aide to Zardari. \"Now it depends if PML-N [Sharif's party] accepts\".Sharif has so far been determined to push forward with his showdown with the government. But the last-ditch intervention of the UK and US appears to have persuaded him to consider cutting a deal.\"Things are still a bit raw but there is definitely some activity,\" said an insider in Sharif's party. \"The army is also showing some concern. They [the government] have to do something.\"Zardari has finally outsmarted himself.\"Sharif's party has joined the lawyers to take part in a \"long march\" this week to the capital, where a mass protest is planned for 16 March, raising fears of serious civil unrest that could force the army to step in. They are calling for an independent judiciary, especially the reinstatement of the chief justice removed by the former military ruler Pervez Musharraf in 2007. The government has cracked down hard on the demonstrators, arresting hundreds and blocking roads across the country.Whether or not Sharif and Zardari reach a compromise, the march is likely to continue, although the potential for conflict could be lessened.\"These people [the government] are opening the doors to dialogue again,\" said Zulfikhar Khosa, a senior member of Sharif's party.Zardari's Pakistan People's party accuses Sharif of using the issue of the judges to try and bring down the government, which was elected in February 2008, after more than eight years of military rule.Given the harsh clampdown, it is unclear how many protesters will be able to make it to Islamabad for Monday.Pakistan is a key anti-terrorism ally of the west but is struggling against the twin challenges of extremist violence and an economy in tailspin.London and Washington fear that a political clash could paralyse the government and push the nuclear-armed country towards implosion.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "World news", "US military"], "title": "Scramble for Pakistan political settlement"},{"date": "2009-03-13T19:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "How our ancestors must be turning in their graves. By invoking a draconian British Raj-era criminal code that essentially outlaws public protests, the Pakistani government controlled by Asif Ali Zardari has stirred the subcontinent's long legacy of civil disobedience against draconian authorities.People have been quick to note that, in invoking section 144 of the criminal procedure code to crack down on dissent in this troubled South Asian nation, Zardari has quickly followed in the footprints of his predecessor, the military dictator Pervez Musharraf.But the provision, sadly, has a much older history than that. Section 144 traces its origins to a British criminal code enacted in India as far back as 1860, just three years after the subcontinent's first modern independence movement rocked British rule throughout north and central India. The provision was subsequently used routinely by British authorities well up to Partition in 1947. Many of the most celebrated leaders of the great civil disobedience project that eventually unseated the British were imprisoned using this most colonial of enforcement mechanisms.The 1860 criminal code was adopted by Indian and Pakistani authorities after independence, and section 144 has been used to prevent civil disobedience in both countries for successive decades.Pakistan's latest string of protests is no different.Nor, some would say, is the fundamental power dynamic between the west and Pakistan. There are reports that Zardari has been given an ultimatum by Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani and army chief Ashfaq Pervez Kayani, backed by Washington and London. This follows a week when western diplomats have been contacting all three men and opposition leader Nawaz Sharif on a daily basis.The ultimatum is that Zardari will be removed from office unless he welcomes his political rivals back to parliament, helps finalise constitutional amendments that would strip the president of his current sweeping powers, reinstate sacked chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, and return political control of the Punjab to elected members of parliament (it is currently under the stewardship of the Zardari loyalist Salman Taseer).This afternoon Zardari decided in principle to lift Taseer's rule in Punjab. Whether he will agree to the other elements remains to be seen. Meanwhile, the crackdown on protesters continues in earnest. Hundreds of mostly rank-and-file human rights lawyers and political activists have been arrested over the past few days.The Long March, as the lawyers' protest for Chaudhry's reinstatement has been dubbed, is expected to continue on towards Islamabad despite the arrests. Many participants have decided to make the journey to the nation's capital discreetly rather than risk detention by entering as a throng.The lawyers' movement has been relatively dormant ever since Musharraf was forced to resign last August by the two men who are now at war with one another. It has been invigorated by Zardari's attempts to consign Nawaz Sharif to the political dustbin. The fracas has transformed the Long March into a street-level vote of no-confidence in the Zardari administration.Herein lies the great paradox of Pakistani politics. For while very little has changed in the political life of this desperately poor country, there remains a vibrant and expressive civil society and a relatively free media which, apart from the state-run broadcasters, has given up-to-the-minute coverage of Pakistan's latest drama.In the most backhanded of ways, that is something to celebrate, as is the sight of ordinary citizens joined by lawyers in their signature black suits marching towards baton-wielding riot police in processions they must know place them at risk of arrest and physical assault. Indeed, many of them were imprisoned by Musharraf for demanding the reinstatement of Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry as chief justice.\"I have no fear of going to prison again,\" says Abid Feroze, a young corporate lawyer I met in Karachi yesterday as the legal community commenced its march from the Sindh high court to Islamabad.\"Today, we will violate section 144,\" shouted former president of the Sindh high court bar association Munir Malik to loud cheers as the lawyers commenced their march. \"It is your inviolable duty to obey the [Pakistani] constitution,\" added retired Sindh high court justice Fakhruddin Ebrahim. He argued that the lawyers' movement was a lawful attempt to reinstate the primacy of the constitution and the rule of law.The lawyers have had an unlikely ally in their cause \u2013 Zardari's haphazard clampdown on dissent, the day-to-day management of which has been outsourced to key lieutenant Rehman Malik.There was no more dramatic example of this than the image, broadcast live on private television networks, of the botched attempt to arrest the deposed chief justice's spokesperson on Wednesday. Spotted by police while driving on a busy street in the nation's capital, Athar Minallah resisted arrest by locking his car. He promptly called the media, who rushed to his car and interviewed him through a window as Rehman Malik, whose own car had been bogged down in the ensuing traffic jam, was forced to personally intervene and order the police to stand down.There were other odd reversals of tactics. Earlier this week the government reprimanded Nawaz Sharif and other protestors for instigating \"sedition\". It now described its clampdown as a precautionary measure to protect protesters from attacks by \"terrorists and enemies of the country\".The country was not convinced by this volte-face. \"We are not against the Long March,\" a stern-faced Malik, now engaged in damage control, later told the National Assembly. Malik now denies that he ordered the arrest of opposition figures, including members of parliament, even though arrests continue as you read this.It would be churlish to write Asif Ali Zardari off, given that he is one of the great survivors of Pakistani politics. But if his administration is this haphazard in merely seeking to consolidate power, one wonders how it will handle Pakistan's existential threats \u2013 poverty, weak institutions and a Taliban insurgency.For most Pakistanis, it is all a case of history repeating itself.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Protest", "World news"], "title": "Mustafa Qadri: History repeats itself in Pakistan with a Raj-era law against public protest"},{"date": "2009-05-13T14:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last week, I was in Barcelona attending a conference on the challenges to development posed by countries defined as \"fragile\" \u2013 which is the focus of the first-ever European Report on Development. The focus was sub-Saharan countries, but I was led to ponder Pakistan's chronic instability as I viewed the images of hundreds of thousands of civilians fleeing the fighting between the army and the Taliban.One expert at the gathering described Pakistan's fragility as a paradox and an anomaly, given the size of the country's economy and its level of income and development. The current flare-up aside, some of the differences are more ones of perception than reality.For instance, according to the Human Development Index \u2013 which, incidentally, was developed by two economists from India and Pakistan \u2013 these two countries are at similar levels of development (132nd and 139th respectively). For the past few years, India has been experiencing extraordinary economic growth \u2013 fuelled by its knowledge boom \u2013 but until the 1990s Pakistan performed consistently better and had a significantly higher per-capita GDP.As for civil strife, sectarian conflict and secessionist struggles, India has its fair share, too. For instance, in the two weeks we were in India last year, there were Islamist bombings, the killing of Christians and Muslims by Hindu mobs, and the complete shutting down of the Kashmir valley. Still, despite its significantly larger population and dizzying ethnic and religious mix, India appears, impressively, to be more stable, viable and democratic than Pakistan. Why is this? Well, one reason could be that India's very size and diversity are actually serving the country well.Far more than Pakistan, post-independence India has needed a political culture of compromise and consensus-building based on an understanding that no one group would be able to completely dominate the others \u2013 what Brian Whitaker calls \"stability through stalemate\". However, the well-worn adage of the \"bigger they are, the harder they fall\" could well apply in the case of India. If the wrong combination of factors emerges, the resulting chaos could make the instability in Pakistan look like a children's picnic.India's diversity is a good incubator for scientific and intellectual excellence \u2013 at least among a certain elite \u2013 and its size means it can tap into economies of scale and markets that other developing countries can only dream of.With Pakistan being a majority Muslim country and the Taliban on the rampage, what role has Islam played in the country's demise? In recent years, it has been popular to link Islam to underdevelopment, but the evidence does not really back this up.\"No clear conclusion emerges from the study of the impact of Islam on economic growth and development,\" observes Jean-Philippe Platteau, professor of \u00adeconomics at the University of Namur in Belgium. \"If anything, the effect is positive rather than negative (at least, when the sample consists only of developing countries).\"He goes on to say that the \"influence of Islam seems to be much clearer on politics than on economics\", pointing to geo-political factors, interstate conflict and the resource curse to explain this democratic deficit. \"[However], it is difficult to determine to what extent Islam hampers politics or politics subverts Islam.\"On Cif recently Whitaker explored how Arab leaders exploit Islam to silence dissent and legitimise their questionable authority. A similar process has been at play for much of Pakistan's history, with secular dictators such as Ayub Khan and Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, and democratically elected leaders such as the Bhuttos all employing religion to impose their rule or veil their corruption.But looking at Pakistan's problems solely through the prism of religion is intellectually lazy and counterproductive. This approach fails to appreciate the uniqueness of the country's circumstances, as well as the huge amount it has in common \u2013 both positive and negative \u2013 with neighbouring India.To properly understand Pakistan, one must go back to its birth. The country was \"conceived in a hurry and delivered prematurely\", as Tariq Ali puts it. The Indian independence movement matured over decades and had the chance to build enduring democratic and civil institutions, and much of what we call India today had been a recognisable political entity, first under the Mughals and then the British.In contrast, Pakistan had no precedent and was created almost as an afterthought by the British to reward the loyal Muslim League, which had split away from the Congress party out of fear of post-independence marginalisation or persecution.Much more than the rest of the subcontinent, Pakistan was rocked to the core by the massive population shake-ups \u2013 with a huge influx of Muslims from all over India and an almost complete exodus of Hindus and Sikhs. However, Pakistan's apparent religious uniformity masks major ethnic and cultural tensions.The dominance of the Punjabi muhajirun (migrants or refugees) is resented by the native Sindhis, Pashtuns and, earlier, Bengalis, who broke away to form Bangladesh after Pakistan's bloody invasion in 1971.So, despite Pakistan's original conception as a secular democracy, its leaders, faced with the prospect of territorial disintegration and a lack of legitimacy (particularly among non-Punjabis), fell back on the only common denominator, Islam, to try to keep the fragile country together and cement their hold on power \u2013 with disastrous consequences.Regional geopolitics has also been a major factor in Pakistan's instability. India has never been able to forgive Pakistan for breaking away, and Pakistan has always sought to outshine India and is bitter about not being awarded Kashmir. In a parallel with cold war, the India-Pakistan standoff has been far more costly for Pakistan than India, given the disparity in the size of their economies.In addition, the volatility in neighbouring Afghanistan \u2013 and Pakistan's role as a staunch US ally in the cold war, training mujahideen and the Taliban \u2013 has been the cause of one of the most spectacular cases of blowback in recent history: with the monster returning to consume the hand that shaped it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "World news", "Global development", "Politics"], "title": "Pakistan: stifled from birth | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-05-13T14:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last week, I was in Barcelona attending a conference on the challenges to development posed by countries defined as \"fragile\" \u2013 which is the focus of the first-ever European Report on Development. The focus was sub-Saharan countries, but I was led to ponder Pakistan's chronic instability as I viewed the images of hundreds of thousands of civilians fleeing the fighting between the army and the Taliban.One expert at the gathering described Pakistan's fragility as a paradox and an anomaly, given the size of the country's economy and its level of income and development. The current flare-up aside, some of the differences are more ones of perception than reality.For instance, according to the Human Development Index \u2013 which, incidentally, was developed by two economists from India and Pakistan \u2013 these two countries are at similar levels of development (132nd and 139th respectively). For the past few years, India has been experiencing extraordinary economic growth \u2013 fuelled by its knowledge boom \u2013 but until the 1990s Pakistan performed consistently better and had a significantly higher per-capita GDP.As for civil strife, sectarian conflict and secessionist struggles, India has its fair share, too. For instance, in the two weeks we were in India last year, there were Islamist bombings, the killing of Christians and Muslims by Hindu mobs, and the complete shutting down of the Kashmir valley. Still, despite its significantly larger population and dizzying ethnic and religious mix, India appears, impressively, to be more stable, viable and democratic than Pakistan. Why is this? Well, one reason could be that India's very size and diversity are actually serving the country well.Far more than Pakistan, post-independence India has needed a political culture of compromise and consensus-building based on an understanding that no one group would be able to completely dominate the others \u2013 what Brian Whitaker calls \"stability through stalemate\". However, the well-worn adage of the \"bigger they are, the harder they fall\" could well apply in the case of India. If the wrong combination of factors emerges, the resulting chaos could make the instability in Pakistan look like a children's picnic.India's diversity is a good incubator for scientific and intellectual excellence \u2013 at least among a certain elite \u2013 and its size means it can tap into economies of scale and markets that other developing countries can only dream of.With Pakistan being a majority Muslim country and the Taliban on the rampage, what role has Islam played in the country's demise? In recent years, it has been popular to link Islam to underdevelopment, but the evidence does not really back this up.\"No clear conclusion emerges from the study of the impact of Islam on economic growth and development,\" observes Jean-Philippe Platteau, professor of \u00adeconomics at the University of Namur in Belgium. \"If anything, the effect is positive rather than negative (at least, when the sample consists only of developing countries).\"He goes on to say that the \"influence of Islam seems to be much clearer on politics than on economics\", pointing to geo-political factors, interstate conflict and the resource curse to explain this democratic deficit. \"[However], it is difficult to determine to what extent Islam hampers politics or politics subverts Islam.\"On Cif recently Whitaker explored how Arab leaders exploit Islam to silence dissent and legitimise their questionable authority. A similar process has been at play for much of Pakistan's history, with secular dictators such as Ayub Khan and Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, and democratically elected leaders such as the Bhuttos all employing religion to impose their rule or veil their corruption.But looking at Pakistan's problems solely through the prism of religion is intellectually lazy and counterproductive. This approach fails to appreciate the uniqueness of the country's circumstances, as well as the huge amount it has in common \u2013 both positive and negative \u2013 with neighbouring India.To properly understand Pakistan, one must go back to its birth. The country was \"conceived in a hurry and delivered prematurely\", as Tariq Ali puts it. The Indian independence movement matured over decades and had the chance to build enduring democratic and civil institutions, and much of what we call India today had been a recognisable political entity, first under the Mughals and then the British.In contrast, Pakistan had no precedent and was created almost as an afterthought by the British to reward the loyal Muslim League, which had split away from the Congress party out of fear of post-independence marginalisation or persecution.Much more than the rest of the subcontinent, Pakistan was rocked to the core by the massive population shake-ups \u2013 with a huge influx of Muslims from all over India and an almost complete exodus of Hindus and Sikhs. However, Pakistan's apparent religious uniformity masks major ethnic and cultural tensions.The dominance of the Punjabi muhajirun (migrants or refugees) is resented by the native Sindhis, Pashtuns and, earlier, Bengalis, who broke away to form Bangladesh after Pakistan's bloody invasion in 1971.So, despite Pakistan's original conception as a secular democracy, its leaders, faced with the prospect of territorial disintegration and a lack of legitimacy (particularly among non-Punjabis), fell back on the only common denominator, Islam, to try to keep the fragile country together and cement their hold on power \u2013 with disastrous consequences.Regional geopolitics has also been a major factor in Pakistan's instability. India has never been able to forgive Pakistan for breaking away, and Pakistan has always sought to outshine India and is bitter about not being awarded Kashmir. In a parallel with cold war, the India-Pakistan standoff has been far more costly for Pakistan than India, given the disparity in the size of their economies.In addition, the volatility in neighbouring Afghanistan \u2013 and Pakistan's role as a staunch US ally in the cold war, training mujahideen and the Taliban \u2013 has been the cause of one of the most spectacular cases of blowback in recent history: with the monster returning to consume the hand that shaped it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "World news", "Global development", "Politics"], "title": "Pakistan: stifled from birth | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-04-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten days after the government of Pakistan agreed to the imposition of sharia law in Swat, Taliban fighters spilled out of the valley into the neighbouring district of Buner, just 60 miles from the capital, Islamabad. For the 650,000 inhabitants of Buner, the Taliban are not just the law. They man the roadblocks, order NGOs to leave their offices and loot them. Meanwhile local police cower in their barracks. For Buner's residents, the Pakistani state - already a weak concept in the North-West Frontier Province - has just become a virtual one.If the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, reacted with horror and hyperbole (she said Pakistan represented a mortal threat to world security), the response in Islamabad was positively lethargic. It dispatched only six platoons of paramilitaries - not even army soldiers - to retrieve control of bridges and government offices. The prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, said Ms Clinton should understand that local customs are the guarantors of peace in Swat, but also hinted that the peace deal was conditional. Which of them is reading the situation correctly?The physical proximity of the Taliban to Islamabad is misleading. They may have come down from the higher mountains and be threatening the plains. But the Taliban presence in Buner is more of a worry to Mardan, the second largest city in the NWFP, than it is to the Punjab. And it is one thing for men to be told to keep their women indoors in the NWFP and quite another for the same thing to happen in the urban belt running from Islamabad to Lahore, where the very thought is laughable. There would be bloodshed if they tried imposing sharia on Karachi. To the question: will Pakistan fall to the Taliban?, the answer is that parts of the country have already fallen to them. But that does not mean Pakistan as a whole is in danger, even though there are fault lines running through the country, and through the Punjab itself, which militants are exploiting.Relations between the US and Pakistan are at an impasse. Neither can abandon the other, but neither can deliver what the other really wants. Pakistan's army has neither the power nor the will to destroy the Taliban. For those generals who even today are reluctant to cut their ties with the Taliban, the army has swapped a policy of \"gaining strategic depth\" in Afghanistan for one which seeks strategic depth in their own country. On the other hand, there was genuine revulsion when a video of a woman being flogged by the Taliban was released. Which means there are red lines that the Taliban have yet to cross. Unbelievably, many in the military are still waiting for that to happen.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Editorial: Taliban fighters in Pakistan - probing the frontiers"},{"date": "2009-05-13T14:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last week, I was in Barcelona attending a conference on the challenges to development posed by countries defined as \"fragile\" \u2013 which is the focus of the first-ever European Report on Development. The focus was sub-Saharan countries, but I was led to ponder Pakistan's chronic instability as I viewed the images of hundreds of thousands of civilians fleeing the fighting between the army and the Taliban.One expert at the gathering described Pakistan's fragility as a paradox and an anomaly, given the size of the country's economy and its level of income and development. The current flare-up aside, some of the differences are more ones of perception than reality.For instance, according to the Human Development Index \u2013 which, incidentally, was developed by two economists from India and Pakistan \u2013 these two countries are at similar levels of development (132nd and 139th respectively). For the past few years, India has been experiencing extraordinary economic growth \u2013 fuelled by its knowledge boom \u2013 but until the 1990s Pakistan performed consistently better and had a significantly higher per-capita GDP.As for civil strife, sectarian conflict and secessionist struggles, India has its fair share, too. For instance, in the two weeks we were in India last year, there were Islamist bombings, the killing of Christians and Muslims by Hindu mobs, and the complete shutting down of the Kashmir valley. Still, despite its significantly larger population and dizzying ethnic and religious mix, India appears, impressively, to be more stable, viable and democratic than Pakistan. Why is this? Well, one reason could be that India's very size and diversity are actually serving the country well.Far more than Pakistan, post-independence India has needed a political culture of compromise and consensus-building based on an understanding that no one group would be able to completely dominate the others \u2013 what Brian Whitaker calls \"stability through stalemate\". However, the well-worn adage of the \"bigger they are, the harder they fall\" could well apply in the case of India. If the wrong combination of factors emerges, the resulting chaos could make the instability in Pakistan look like a children's picnic.India's diversity is a good incubator for scientific and intellectual excellence \u2013 at least among a certain elite \u2013 and its size means it can tap into economies of scale and markets that other developing countries can only dream of.With Pakistan being a majority Muslim country and the Taliban on the rampage, what role has Islam played in the country's demise? In recent years, it has been popular to link Islam to underdevelopment, but the evidence does not really back this up.\"No clear conclusion emerges from the study of the impact of Islam on economic growth and development,\" observes Jean-Philippe Platteau, professor of \u00adeconomics at the University of Namur in Belgium. \"If anything, the effect is positive rather than negative (at least, when the sample consists only of developing countries).\"He goes on to say that the \"influence of Islam seems to be much clearer on politics than on economics\", pointing to geo-political factors, interstate conflict and the resource curse to explain this democratic deficit. \"[However], it is difficult to determine to what extent Islam hampers politics or politics subverts Islam.\"On Cif recently Whitaker explored how Arab leaders exploit Islam to silence dissent and legitimise their questionable authority. A similar process has been at play for much of Pakistan's history, with secular dictators such as Ayub Khan and Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, and democratically elected leaders such as the Bhuttos all employing religion to impose their rule or veil their corruption.But looking at Pakistan's problems solely through the prism of religion is intellectually lazy and counterproductive. This approach fails to appreciate the uniqueness of the country's circumstances, as well as the huge amount it has in common \u2013 both positive and negative \u2013 with neighbouring India.To properly understand Pakistan, one must go back to its birth. The country was \"conceived in a hurry and delivered prematurely\", as Tariq Ali puts it. The Indian independence movement matured over decades and had the chance to build enduring democratic and civil institutions, and much of what we call India today had been a recognisable political entity, first under the Mughals and then the British.In contrast, Pakistan had no precedent and was created almost as an afterthought by the British to reward the loyal Muslim League, which had split away from the Congress party out of fear of post-independence marginalisation or persecution.Much more than the rest of the subcontinent, Pakistan was rocked to the core by the massive population shake-ups \u2013 with a huge influx of Muslims from all over India and an almost complete exodus of Hindus and Sikhs. However, Pakistan's apparent religious uniformity masks major ethnic and cultural tensions.The dominance of the Punjabi muhajirun (migrants or refugees) is resented by the native Sindhis, Pashtuns and, earlier, Bengalis, who broke away to form Bangladesh after Pakistan's bloody invasion in 1971.So, despite Pakistan's original conception as a secular democracy, its leaders, faced with the prospect of territorial disintegration and a lack of legitimacy (particularly among non-Punjabis), fell back on the only common denominator, Islam, to try to keep the fragile country together and cement their hold on power \u2013 with disastrous consequences.Regional geopolitics has also been a major factor in Pakistan's instability. India has never been able to forgive Pakistan for breaking away, and Pakistan has always sought to outshine India and is bitter about not being awarded Kashmir. In a parallel with cold war, the India-Pakistan standoff has been far more costly for Pakistan than India, given the disparity in the size of their economies.In addition, the volatility in neighbouring Afghanistan \u2013 and Pakistan's role as a staunch US ally in the cold war, training mujahideen and the Taliban \u2013 has been the cause of one of the most spectacular cases of blowback in recent history: with the monster returning to consume the hand that shaped it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "World news", "Global development", "Politics"], "title": "Pakistan: stifled from birth | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-04-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten days after the government of Pakistan agreed to the imposition of sharia law in Swat, Taliban fighters spilled out of the valley into the neighbouring district of Buner, just 60 miles from the capital, Islamabad. For the 650,000 inhabitants of Buner, the Taliban are not just the law. They man the roadblocks, order NGOs to leave their offices and loot them. Meanwhile local police cower in their barracks. For Buner's residents, the Pakistani state - already a weak concept in the North-West Frontier Province - has just become a virtual one.If the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, reacted with horror and hyperbole (she said Pakistan represented a mortal threat to world security), the response in Islamabad was positively lethargic. It dispatched only six platoons of paramilitaries - not even army soldiers - to retrieve control of bridges and government offices. The prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, said Ms Clinton should understand that local customs are the guarantors of peace in Swat, but also hinted that the peace deal was conditional. Which of them is reading the situation correctly?The physical proximity of the Taliban to Islamabad is misleading. They may have come down from the higher mountains and be threatening the plains. But the Taliban presence in Buner is more of a worry to Mardan, the second largest city in the NWFP, than it is to the Punjab. And it is one thing for men to be told to keep their women indoors in the NWFP and quite another for the same thing to happen in the urban belt running from Islamabad to Lahore, where the very thought is laughable. There would be bloodshed if they tried imposing sharia on Karachi. To the question: will Pakistan fall to the Taliban?, the answer is that parts of the country have already fallen to them. But that does not mean Pakistan as a whole is in danger, even though there are fault lines running through the country, and through the Punjab itself, which militants are exploiting.Relations between the US and Pakistan are at an impasse. Neither can abandon the other, but neither can deliver what the other really wants. Pakistan's army has neither the power nor the will to destroy the Taliban. For those generals who even today are reluctant to cut their ties with the Taliban, the army has swapped a policy of \"gaining strategic depth\" in Afghanistan for one which seeks strategic depth in their own country. On the other hand, there was genuine revulsion when a video of a woman being flogged by the Taliban was released. Which means there are red lines that the Taliban have yet to cross. Unbelievably, many in the military are still waiting for that to happen.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Editorial: Taliban fighters in Pakistan - probing the frontiers"},{"date": "2009-06-12T10:51:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Suicide bombers are said to have killed at least five people and wounded dozens more in almost simultaneous attacks on two cities in Pakistan.A leading anti-Taliban Muslim cleric died in the blast at a religious school in the eastern city of Lahore while a suicide bomber in a pick-up truck set off explosives at a mosque and reportedly destroyed its roof in the north-western garrison town of Nowshera.The attacks, which came soon after Friday prayers, were the latest in a wave of suicide bombings and other incidents mounted in response to military operations against the Taliban in the Swat valley and elsewhere. No one immediately claimed responsibility for the explosions.A moderate cleric, Sarfraz Naeemi, who had issued a fatwa against suicide bombings, died in the Lahore explosion, which destroyed offices in the seminary. Television station al-Jazeera reported that a lone suicide attacker entered the school before detonating the bomb near the cleric.The cleric's brother, Tajwar Naeemi, said seven people were wounded in the attack. \"When I came out of the office a few people went in and the suicide bomber was probably among them,\" he told Reuters.In Nowshera the explosion at the mosque within a military cantonment is said to have killed at least three people and injured more than 100, with more fatalities feared. The roof of the mosque, where both military personnel and civilians are thought to have been worshipping, collapsed, said al-Jazeera.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Two bomb blasts hit Pakistan"},{"date": "2009-05-13T14:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last week, I was in Barcelona attending a conference on the challenges to development posed by countries defined as \"fragile\" \u2013 which is the focus of the first-ever European Report on Development. The focus was sub-Saharan countries, but I was led to ponder Pakistan's chronic instability as I viewed the images of hundreds of thousands of civilians fleeing the fighting between the army and the Taliban.One expert at the gathering described Pakistan's fragility as a paradox and an anomaly, given the size of the country's economy and its level of income and development. The current flare-up aside, some of the differences are more ones of perception than reality.For instance, according to the Human Development Index \u2013 which, incidentally, was developed by two economists from India and Pakistan \u2013 these two countries are at similar levels of development (132nd and 139th respectively). For the past few years, India has been experiencing extraordinary economic growth \u2013 fuelled by its knowledge boom \u2013 but until the 1990s Pakistan performed consistently better and had a significantly higher per-capita GDP.As for civil strife, sectarian conflict and secessionist struggles, India has its fair share, too. For instance, in the two weeks we were in India last year, there were Islamist bombings, the killing of Christians and Muslims by Hindu mobs, and the complete shutting down of the Kashmir valley. Still, despite its significantly larger population and dizzying ethnic and religious mix, India appears, impressively, to be more stable, viable and democratic than Pakistan. Why is this? Well, one reason could be that India's very size and diversity are actually serving the country well.Far more than Pakistan, post-independence India has needed a political culture of compromise and consensus-building based on an understanding that no one group would be able to completely dominate the others \u2013 what Brian Whitaker calls \"stability through stalemate\". However, the well-worn adage of the \"bigger they are, the harder they fall\" could well apply in the case of India. If the wrong combination of factors emerges, the resulting chaos could make the instability in Pakistan look like a children's picnic.India's diversity is a good incubator for scientific and intellectual excellence \u2013 at least among a certain elite \u2013 and its size means it can tap into economies of scale and markets that other developing countries can only dream of.With Pakistan being a majority Muslim country and the Taliban on the rampage, what role has Islam played in the country's demise? In recent years, it has been popular to link Islam to underdevelopment, but the evidence does not really back this up.\"No clear conclusion emerges from the study of the impact of Islam on economic growth and development,\" observes Jean-Philippe Platteau, professor of \u00adeconomics at the University of Namur in Belgium. \"If anything, the effect is positive rather than negative (at least, when the sample consists only of developing countries).\"He goes on to say that the \"influence of Islam seems to be much clearer on politics than on economics\", pointing to geo-political factors, interstate conflict and the resource curse to explain this democratic deficit. \"[However], it is difficult to determine to what extent Islam hampers politics or politics subverts Islam.\"On Cif recently Whitaker explored how Arab leaders exploit Islam to silence dissent and legitimise their questionable authority. A similar process has been at play for much of Pakistan's history, with secular dictators such as Ayub Khan and Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, and democratically elected leaders such as the Bhuttos all employing religion to impose their rule or veil their corruption.But looking at Pakistan's problems solely through the prism of religion is intellectually lazy and counterproductive. This approach fails to appreciate the uniqueness of the country's circumstances, as well as the huge amount it has in common \u2013 both positive and negative \u2013 with neighbouring India.To properly understand Pakistan, one must go back to its birth. The country was \"conceived in a hurry and delivered prematurely\", as Tariq Ali puts it. The Indian independence movement matured over decades and had the chance to build enduring democratic and civil institutions, and much of what we call India today had been a recognisable political entity, first under the Mughals and then the British.In contrast, Pakistan had no precedent and was created almost as an afterthought by the British to reward the loyal Muslim League, which had split away from the Congress party out of fear of post-independence marginalisation or persecution.Much more than the rest of the subcontinent, Pakistan was rocked to the core by the massive population shake-ups \u2013 with a huge influx of Muslims from all over India and an almost complete exodus of Hindus and Sikhs. However, Pakistan's apparent religious uniformity masks major ethnic and cultural tensions.The dominance of the Punjabi muhajirun (migrants or refugees) is resented by the native Sindhis, Pashtuns and, earlier, Bengalis, who broke away to form Bangladesh after Pakistan's bloody invasion in 1971.So, despite Pakistan's original conception as a secular democracy, its leaders, faced with the prospect of territorial disintegration and a lack of legitimacy (particularly among non-Punjabis), fell back on the only common denominator, Islam, to try to keep the fragile country together and cement their hold on power \u2013 with disastrous consequences.Regional geopolitics has also been a major factor in Pakistan's instability. India has never been able to forgive Pakistan for breaking away, and Pakistan has always sought to outshine India and is bitter about not being awarded Kashmir. In a parallel with cold war, the India-Pakistan standoff has been far more costly for Pakistan than India, given the disparity in the size of their economies.In addition, the volatility in neighbouring Afghanistan \u2013 and Pakistan's role as a staunch US ally in the cold war, training mujahideen and the Taliban \u2013 has been the cause of one of the most spectacular cases of blowback in recent history: with the monster returning to consume the hand that shaped it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "World news", "Global development", "Politics"], "title": "Pakistan: stifled from birth | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-04-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten days after the government of Pakistan agreed to the imposition of sharia law in Swat, Taliban fighters spilled out of the valley into the neighbouring district of Buner, just 60 miles from the capital, Islamabad. For the 650,000 inhabitants of Buner, the Taliban are not just the law. They man the roadblocks, order NGOs to leave their offices and loot them. Meanwhile local police cower in their barracks. For Buner's residents, the Pakistani state - already a weak concept in the North-West Frontier Province - has just become a virtual one.If the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, reacted with horror and hyperbole (she said Pakistan represented a mortal threat to world security), the response in Islamabad was positively lethargic. It dispatched only six platoons of paramilitaries - not even army soldiers - to retrieve control of bridges and government offices. The prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, said Ms Clinton should understand that local customs are the guarantors of peace in Swat, but also hinted that the peace deal was conditional. Which of them is reading the situation correctly?The physical proximity of the Taliban to Islamabad is misleading. They may have come down from the higher mountains and be threatening the plains. But the Taliban presence in Buner is more of a worry to Mardan, the second largest city in the NWFP, than it is to the Punjab. And it is one thing for men to be told to keep their women indoors in the NWFP and quite another for the same thing to happen in the urban belt running from Islamabad to Lahore, where the very thought is laughable. There would be bloodshed if they tried imposing sharia on Karachi. To the question: will Pakistan fall to the Taliban?, the answer is that parts of the country have already fallen to them. But that does not mean Pakistan as a whole is in danger, even though there are fault lines running through the country, and through the Punjab itself, which militants are exploiting.Relations between the US and Pakistan are at an impasse. Neither can abandon the other, but neither can deliver what the other really wants. Pakistan's army has neither the power nor the will to destroy the Taliban. For those generals who even today are reluctant to cut their ties with the Taliban, the army has swapped a policy of \"gaining strategic depth\" in Afghanistan for one which seeks strategic depth in their own country. On the other hand, there was genuine revulsion when a video of a woman being flogged by the Taliban was released. Which means there are red lines that the Taliban have yet to cross. Unbelievably, many in the military are still waiting for that to happen.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Editorial: Taliban fighters in Pakistan - probing the frontiers"},{"date": "2009-06-12T10:51:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Suicide bombers are said to have killed at least five people and wounded dozens more in almost simultaneous attacks on two cities in Pakistan.A leading anti-Taliban Muslim cleric died in the blast at a religious school in the eastern city of Lahore while a suicide bomber in a pick-up truck set off explosives at a mosque and reportedly destroyed its roof in the north-western garrison town of Nowshera.The attacks, which came soon after Friday prayers, were the latest in a wave of suicide bombings and other incidents mounted in response to military operations against the Taliban in the Swat valley and elsewhere. No one immediately claimed responsibility for the explosions.A moderate cleric, Sarfraz Naeemi, who had issued a fatwa against suicide bombings, died in the Lahore explosion, which destroyed offices in the seminary. Television station al-Jazeera reported that a lone suicide attacker entered the school before detonating the bomb near the cleric.The cleric's brother, Tajwar Naeemi, said seven people were wounded in the attack. \"When I came out of the office a few people went in and the suicide bomber was probably among them,\" he told Reuters.In Nowshera the explosion at the mosque within a military cantonment is said to have killed at least three people and injured more than 100, with more fatalities feared. The roof of the mosque, where both military personnel and civilians are thought to have been worshipping, collapsed, said al-Jazeera.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Two bomb blasts hit Pakistan"},{"date": "2009-06-11T16:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Until this week, Peshawar's Pearl Continental hotel was a rare island of air-conditioned calm in an increasingly dangerous country, for foreigners and local elites only of course. Its bombing this week is a crude but effective reminder that the Taliban is not a spent force.Peshawar, the restless capital of Pakistan's North West Frontier Province, has had many visitors over the past several years. A key outpost on the long trading route that links south with central Asia, for centuries it has been famed as an enchanted if sleepy backwater where anything from liquor to the latest computers could be purchased for a price.That character has changed these past few years. This week's massive bomb blast at the city's premier hotel affirmed Peshawar's transformation into one of the key battlegrounds in the war against the Taliban.Whether the attack was aimed directly at aid agencies delivering humanitarian goods to the families displaced by the war in the NWFP is unclear. But the murder of three UN Food Programme employees along with eight others has for the moment stalled international efforts to deliver humanitarian assistance to the vast numbers made homeless by this war.The attack on the Peshawar Pearl Continental may have had an added meaning for the United States. The US was on the cusp of completing a deal for its purchase as part of a massive expansion of its Peshawar consulate, a key base for the co-ordination of American intelligence in this region. The consulate expansion was part of the $1bn (\u00a3607m) project that will see its missions in Afghanistan and Pakistan expanded ever further.Just as the Islamabad Marriott appeared to be targeted in last September's massive bomb blast because it was frequented by foreign diplomats and American intelligence operatives, the Peshawar Pearl Continental was often frequented by American embassy and intelligence staff and, possibly, their local operatives. The hotel was also frequented by American officials in the 1980s, only in those days they were co-ordinating efforts to arm the most radical, Islamist militants they could muster to fight the godless communists in Afghanistan.Already there is an almost total disconnect between Pakistanis and the several hundreds of Americans and other foreign government workers living in Peshawar and other parts of Pakistan. One rarely meets foreigners in any part of Pakistan these days. The latest string of bombings will exacerbate that disconnect. In Peshawar, ordinary citizens are increasingly avoiding the markets and bazaars for fear of being the next victims of a bomb attack. As one mother in the University Town district told me last week, her son's appointment with the dentist was cut short because the police had received threats that a car laden with explosives was parked around the corner. The dental practice happened to be located close to an office of the Awami National Party, a secular Pashtun nationalist political party currently in government in the NWFP. Thankfully, on that occasion, there was no blast. But many are wondering when their luck will run out.Spare a thought for those who have already faced the worst of fates. The millions made homeless by the conflict were already struggling under the sweltering heat with only minimal access to water, food and electricity. Many, although far from all, were totally reliant on humanitarian aid from UN-coordinated international relief efforts. The UN's decision to pull out of those efforts owing to the security situation leaves these communities in unimaginably worse conditions than before. Compounding this hell, the numbers of displaced are expected to rise.Under immense pressure from the United States, the Pakistan army has expanded its operations in the NWFP to include Orakzai and the Waziristan tribal agencies and Bannu, along the border with Afghanistan but well to the south of the Swat valley. Although largely cleared of Taliban control, operations continue in the Swat valley where pockets of insurgents remain.The simple truth is that it is unclear how deeply the Taliban and those sympathetic to its cause \u2013 to establish an Islamic state along rigid, literal interpretations of scripture as in Afghanistan under the Taliban \u2013 have infiltrated deeper into Pakistan.For years now it has been an open secret that the Afghan Taliban, who with a few exceptions has chosen not to get embroiled in the conflict within Pakistan, has run safe houses in northern Balochistan. Many of its and the Pakistani Taliban's footsoldiers are recruited from the large pool of poor young men of southern Punjab's Seraiki belt, particularly among the Waraich clan that the Mughals and British considered one of the great \"martial races\" of the subcontinent.In short, the latent potential of a broader Taliban insurgency in Pakistan remains strong. As it remains in the international spotlight, Pakistan is in the unenviable position of having to prove that it is capable of defeating the Taliban while, at the same time, ensuring it does not splinter the broad network of largely NWFP-based Taliban militants into the rest of the country. It is the stuff of a general's worst nightmares.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "Global development", "United Nations", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan faces a growing insurgency | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-05-13T14:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last week, I was in Barcelona attending a conference on the challenges to development posed by countries defined as \"fragile\" \u2013 which is the focus of the first-ever European Report on Development. The focus was sub-Saharan countries, but I was led to ponder Pakistan's chronic instability as I viewed the images of hundreds of thousands of civilians fleeing the fighting between the army and the Taliban.One expert at the gathering described Pakistan's fragility as a paradox and an anomaly, given the size of the country's economy and its level of income and development. The current flare-up aside, some of the differences are more ones of perception than reality.For instance, according to the Human Development Index \u2013 which, incidentally, was developed by two economists from India and Pakistan \u2013 these two countries are at similar levels of development (132nd and 139th respectively). For the past few years, India has been experiencing extraordinary economic growth \u2013 fuelled by its knowledge boom \u2013 but until the 1990s Pakistan performed consistently better and had a significantly higher per-capita GDP.As for civil strife, sectarian conflict and secessionist struggles, India has its fair share, too. For instance, in the two weeks we were in India last year, there were Islamist bombings, the killing of Christians and Muslims by Hindu mobs, and the complete shutting down of the Kashmir valley. Still, despite its significantly larger population and dizzying ethnic and religious mix, India appears, impressively, to be more stable, viable and democratic than Pakistan. Why is this? Well, one reason could be that India's very size and diversity are actually serving the country well.Far more than Pakistan, post-independence India has needed a political culture of compromise and consensus-building based on an understanding that no one group would be able to completely dominate the others \u2013 what Brian Whitaker calls \"stability through stalemate\". However, the well-worn adage of the \"bigger they are, the harder they fall\" could well apply in the case of India. If the wrong combination of factors emerges, the resulting chaos could make the instability in Pakistan look like a children's picnic.India's diversity is a good incubator for scientific and intellectual excellence \u2013 at least among a certain elite \u2013 and its size means it can tap into economies of scale and markets that other developing countries can only dream of.With Pakistan being a majority Muslim country and the Taliban on the rampage, what role has Islam played in the country's demise? In recent years, it has been popular to link Islam to underdevelopment, but the evidence does not really back this up.\"No clear conclusion emerges from the study of the impact of Islam on economic growth and development,\" observes Jean-Philippe Platteau, professor of \u00adeconomics at the University of Namur in Belgium. \"If anything, the effect is positive rather than negative (at least, when the sample consists only of developing countries).\"He goes on to say that the \"influence of Islam seems to be much clearer on politics than on economics\", pointing to geo-political factors, interstate conflict and the resource curse to explain this democratic deficit. \"[However], it is difficult to determine to what extent Islam hampers politics or politics subverts Islam.\"On Cif recently Whitaker explored how Arab leaders exploit Islam to silence dissent and legitimise their questionable authority. A similar process has been at play for much of Pakistan's history, with secular dictators such as Ayub Khan and Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, and democratically elected leaders such as the Bhuttos all employing religion to impose their rule or veil their corruption.But looking at Pakistan's problems solely through the prism of religion is intellectually lazy and counterproductive. This approach fails to appreciate the uniqueness of the country's circumstances, as well as the huge amount it has in common \u2013 both positive and negative \u2013 with neighbouring India.To properly understand Pakistan, one must go back to its birth. The country was \"conceived in a hurry and delivered prematurely\", as Tariq Ali puts it. The Indian independence movement matured over decades and had the chance to build enduring democratic and civil institutions, and much of what we call India today had been a recognisable political entity, first under the Mughals and then the British.In contrast, Pakistan had no precedent and was created almost as an afterthought by the British to reward the loyal Muslim League, which had split away from the Congress party out of fear of post-independence marginalisation or persecution.Much more than the rest of the subcontinent, Pakistan was rocked to the core by the massive population shake-ups \u2013 with a huge influx of Muslims from all over India and an almost complete exodus of Hindus and Sikhs. However, Pakistan's apparent religious uniformity masks major ethnic and cultural tensions.The dominance of the Punjabi muhajirun (migrants or refugees) is resented by the native Sindhis, Pashtuns and, earlier, Bengalis, who broke away to form Bangladesh after Pakistan's bloody invasion in 1971.So, despite Pakistan's original conception as a secular democracy, its leaders, faced with the prospect of territorial disintegration and a lack of legitimacy (particularly among non-Punjabis), fell back on the only common denominator, Islam, to try to keep the fragile country together and cement their hold on power \u2013 with disastrous consequences.Regional geopolitics has also been a major factor in Pakistan's instability. India has never been able to forgive Pakistan for breaking away, and Pakistan has always sought to outshine India and is bitter about not being awarded Kashmir. In a parallel with cold war, the India-Pakistan standoff has been far more costly for Pakistan than India, given the disparity in the size of their economies.In addition, the volatility in neighbouring Afghanistan \u2013 and Pakistan's role as a staunch US ally in the cold war, training mujahideen and the Taliban \u2013 has been the cause of one of the most spectacular cases of blowback in recent history: with the monster returning to consume the hand that shaped it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "World news", "Global development", "Politics"], "title": "Pakistan: stifled from birth | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-04-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten days after the government of Pakistan agreed to the imposition of sharia law in Swat, Taliban fighters spilled out of the valley into the neighbouring district of Buner, just 60 miles from the capital, Islamabad. For the 650,000 inhabitants of Buner, the Taliban are not just the law. They man the roadblocks, order NGOs to leave their offices and loot them. Meanwhile local police cower in their barracks. For Buner's residents, the Pakistani state - already a weak concept in the North-West Frontier Province - has just become a virtual one.If the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, reacted with horror and hyperbole (she said Pakistan represented a mortal threat to world security), the response in Islamabad was positively lethargic. It dispatched only six platoons of paramilitaries - not even army soldiers - to retrieve control of bridges and government offices. The prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, said Ms Clinton should understand that local customs are the guarantors of peace in Swat, but also hinted that the peace deal was conditional. Which of them is reading the situation correctly?The physical proximity of the Taliban to Islamabad is misleading. They may have come down from the higher mountains and be threatening the plains. But the Taliban presence in Buner is more of a worry to Mardan, the second largest city in the NWFP, than it is to the Punjab. And it is one thing for men to be told to keep their women indoors in the NWFP and quite another for the same thing to happen in the urban belt running from Islamabad to Lahore, where the very thought is laughable. There would be bloodshed if they tried imposing sharia on Karachi. To the question: will Pakistan fall to the Taliban?, the answer is that parts of the country have already fallen to them. But that does not mean Pakistan as a whole is in danger, even though there are fault lines running through the country, and through the Punjab itself, which militants are exploiting.Relations between the US and Pakistan are at an impasse. Neither can abandon the other, but neither can deliver what the other really wants. Pakistan's army has neither the power nor the will to destroy the Taliban. For those generals who even today are reluctant to cut their ties with the Taliban, the army has swapped a policy of \"gaining strategic depth\" in Afghanistan for one which seeks strategic depth in their own country. On the other hand, there was genuine revulsion when a video of a woman being flogged by the Taliban was released. Which means there are red lines that the Taliban have yet to cross. Unbelievably, many in the military are still waiting for that to happen.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Editorial: Taliban fighters in Pakistan - probing the frontiers"},{"date": "2009-06-12T10:51:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Suicide bombers are said to have killed at least five people and wounded dozens more in almost simultaneous attacks on two cities in Pakistan.A leading anti-Taliban Muslim cleric died in the blast at a religious school in the eastern city of Lahore while a suicide bomber in a pick-up truck set off explosives at a mosque and reportedly destroyed its roof in the north-western garrison town of Nowshera.The attacks, which came soon after Friday prayers, were the latest in a wave of suicide bombings and other incidents mounted in response to military operations against the Taliban in the Swat valley and elsewhere. No one immediately claimed responsibility for the explosions.A moderate cleric, Sarfraz Naeemi, who had issued a fatwa against suicide bombings, died in the Lahore explosion, which destroyed offices in the seminary. Television station al-Jazeera reported that a lone suicide attacker entered the school before detonating the bomb near the cleric.The cleric's brother, Tajwar Naeemi, said seven people were wounded in the attack. \"When I came out of the office a few people went in and the suicide bomber was probably among them,\" he told Reuters.In Nowshera the explosion at the mosque within a military cantonment is said to have killed at least three people and injured more than 100, with more fatalities feared. The roof of the mosque, where both military personnel and civilians are thought to have been worshipping, collapsed, said al-Jazeera.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Two bomb blasts hit Pakistan"},{"date": "2009-06-11T16:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Until this week, Peshawar's Pearl Continental hotel was a rare island of air-conditioned calm in an increasingly dangerous country, for foreigners and local elites only of course. Its bombing this week is a crude but effective reminder that the Taliban is not a spent force.Peshawar, the restless capital of Pakistan's North West Frontier Province, has had many visitors over the past several years. A key outpost on the long trading route that links south with central Asia, for centuries it has been famed as an enchanted if sleepy backwater where anything from liquor to the latest computers could be purchased for a price.That character has changed these past few years. This week's massive bomb blast at the city's premier hotel affirmed Peshawar's transformation into one of the key battlegrounds in the war against the Taliban.Whether the attack was aimed directly at aid agencies delivering humanitarian goods to the families displaced by the war in the NWFP is unclear. But the murder of three UN Food Programme employees along with eight others has for the moment stalled international efforts to deliver humanitarian assistance to the vast numbers made homeless by this war.The attack on the Peshawar Pearl Continental may have had an added meaning for the United States. The US was on the cusp of completing a deal for its purchase as part of a massive expansion of its Peshawar consulate, a key base for the co-ordination of American intelligence in this region. The consulate expansion was part of the $1bn (\u00a3607m) project that will see its missions in Afghanistan and Pakistan expanded ever further.Just as the Islamabad Marriott appeared to be targeted in last September's massive bomb blast because it was frequented by foreign diplomats and American intelligence operatives, the Peshawar Pearl Continental was often frequented by American embassy and intelligence staff and, possibly, their local operatives. The hotel was also frequented by American officials in the 1980s, only in those days they were co-ordinating efforts to arm the most radical, Islamist militants they could muster to fight the godless communists in Afghanistan.Already there is an almost total disconnect between Pakistanis and the several hundreds of Americans and other foreign government workers living in Peshawar and other parts of Pakistan. One rarely meets foreigners in any part of Pakistan these days. The latest string of bombings will exacerbate that disconnect. In Peshawar, ordinary citizens are increasingly avoiding the markets and bazaars for fear of being the next victims of a bomb attack. As one mother in the University Town district told me last week, her son's appointment with the dentist was cut short because the police had received threats that a car laden with explosives was parked around the corner. The dental practice happened to be located close to an office of the Awami National Party, a secular Pashtun nationalist political party currently in government in the NWFP. Thankfully, on that occasion, there was no blast. But many are wondering when their luck will run out.Spare a thought for those who have already faced the worst of fates. The millions made homeless by the conflict were already struggling under the sweltering heat with only minimal access to water, food and electricity. Many, although far from all, were totally reliant on humanitarian aid from UN-coordinated international relief efforts. The UN's decision to pull out of those efforts owing to the security situation leaves these communities in unimaginably worse conditions than before. Compounding this hell, the numbers of displaced are expected to rise.Under immense pressure from the United States, the Pakistan army has expanded its operations in the NWFP to include Orakzai and the Waziristan tribal agencies and Bannu, along the border with Afghanistan but well to the south of the Swat valley. Although largely cleared of Taliban control, operations continue in the Swat valley where pockets of insurgents remain.The simple truth is that it is unclear how deeply the Taliban and those sympathetic to its cause \u2013 to establish an Islamic state along rigid, literal interpretations of scripture as in Afghanistan under the Taliban \u2013 have infiltrated deeper into Pakistan.For years now it has been an open secret that the Afghan Taliban, who with a few exceptions has chosen not to get embroiled in the conflict within Pakistan, has run safe houses in northern Balochistan. Many of its and the Pakistani Taliban's footsoldiers are recruited from the large pool of poor young men of southern Punjab's Seraiki belt, particularly among the Waraich clan that the Mughals and British considered one of the great \"martial races\" of the subcontinent.In short, the latent potential of a broader Taliban insurgency in Pakistan remains strong. As it remains in the international spotlight, Pakistan is in the unenviable position of having to prove that it is capable of defeating the Taliban while, at the same time, ensuring it does not splinter the broad network of largely NWFP-based Taliban militants into the rest of the country. It is the stuff of a general's worst nightmares.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "Global development", "United Nations", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan faces a growing insurgency | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-06-05T12:20:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A suicide blast ripped through a mosque in a mountain village close to Pakistan's Swat Valley today, killing at least 30 people and wounding dozens more. Separately, a roadside bomb killed four soldiers in the tribal belt.The violence was a potent reminder of the militant threat despite claims by the army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, that the battle for Swat had \"decisively turned\" in the military's favour.It coincided with a visit by US envoy Richard Holbrooke, who met relief officials to discuss the plight of 3 million war refugees in North-West Frontier province.Rescuers pulled rubble from the destroyed mosque in Haya Gai, a remote mountain village in Upper Dir district.The local police chief said the confirmed death toll was 30 but scattered body parts \"may make another four to six bodies\".Atif ur Rehman, the top government official in the area, said rain and rugged terrain were hampering rescue efforts. \"I cannot say how many more are dead, but there are scores of wounded,\" he told the Associated Press.The attack targeted a hardy mountain community known to have resisted Taliban encroachment. \"The elders in Haya Gai were threatened at least three or four times because they were opponents of the Taliban,\" said a local journalist, Zahid Jan, speaking by phone from Dir town, about 22 miles (35km) from the blast site.Upper Dir has largely escaped the conflict that has consumed the neighbouring Swat valley over the past month. But three weeks ago the Pakistani army launched air strikes on a Taliban base in Dogra village, a militant stronghold in the area, killing three people, Jan said.The army claims to have pacified large parts of Swat and assured residents it will soon be safe enough for them to return home. However soldiers todayprevented hundreds of people from returning to the valley, saying it was too dangerous.In Islamabad Holbrooke warned that Pakistan could be directly affected by a surge in fighting in Afghanistan, where an extra 17,000 troops are deploying as part of the Obama administration's \"mini-surge\".\"We are concerned there may be some spillover effect, as there was in the past,\" he said, referring to the movement of al-Qaida and Taliban fugitives across the porous 1,500-mile border after 2001.Holbrooke said he would lobby US treasury officials in Washington to help write off Pakistan's debt because the country faced an \"extraordinarily difficult economic situation\".", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Bomb in Pakistan mosque kills at least 30 people"},{"date": "2009-05-13T14:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last week, I was in Barcelona attending a conference on the challenges to development posed by countries defined as \"fragile\" \u2013 which is the focus of the first-ever European Report on Development. The focus was sub-Saharan countries, but I was led to ponder Pakistan's chronic instability as I viewed the images of hundreds of thousands of civilians fleeing the fighting between the army and the Taliban.One expert at the gathering described Pakistan's fragility as a paradox and an anomaly, given the size of the country's economy and its level of income and development. The current flare-up aside, some of the differences are more ones of perception than reality.For instance, according to the Human Development Index \u2013 which, incidentally, was developed by two economists from India and Pakistan \u2013 these two countries are at similar levels of development (132nd and 139th respectively). For the past few years, India has been experiencing extraordinary economic growth \u2013 fuelled by its knowledge boom \u2013 but until the 1990s Pakistan performed consistently better and had a significantly higher per-capita GDP.As for civil strife, sectarian conflict and secessionist struggles, India has its fair share, too. For instance, in the two weeks we were in India last year, there were Islamist bombings, the killing of Christians and Muslims by Hindu mobs, and the complete shutting down of the Kashmir valley. Still, despite its significantly larger population and dizzying ethnic and religious mix, India appears, impressively, to be more stable, viable and democratic than Pakistan. Why is this? Well, one reason could be that India's very size and diversity are actually serving the country well.Far more than Pakistan, post-independence India has needed a political culture of compromise and consensus-building based on an understanding that no one group would be able to completely dominate the others \u2013 what Brian Whitaker calls \"stability through stalemate\". However, the well-worn adage of the \"bigger they are, the harder they fall\" could well apply in the case of India. If the wrong combination of factors emerges, the resulting chaos could make the instability in Pakistan look like a children's picnic.India's diversity is a good incubator for scientific and intellectual excellence \u2013 at least among a certain elite \u2013 and its size means it can tap into economies of scale and markets that other developing countries can only dream of.With Pakistan being a majority Muslim country and the Taliban on the rampage, what role has Islam played in the country's demise? In recent years, it has been popular to link Islam to underdevelopment, but the evidence does not really back this up.\"No clear conclusion emerges from the study of the impact of Islam on economic growth and development,\" observes Jean-Philippe Platteau, professor of \u00adeconomics at the University of Namur in Belgium. \"If anything, the effect is positive rather than negative (at least, when the sample consists only of developing countries).\"He goes on to say that the \"influence of Islam seems to be much clearer on politics than on economics\", pointing to geo-political factors, interstate conflict and the resource curse to explain this democratic deficit. \"[However], it is difficult to determine to what extent Islam hampers politics or politics subverts Islam.\"On Cif recently Whitaker explored how Arab leaders exploit Islam to silence dissent and legitimise their questionable authority. A similar process has been at play for much of Pakistan's history, with secular dictators such as Ayub Khan and Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, and democratically elected leaders such as the Bhuttos all employing religion to impose their rule or veil their corruption.But looking at Pakistan's problems solely through the prism of religion is intellectually lazy and counterproductive. This approach fails to appreciate the uniqueness of the country's circumstances, as well as the huge amount it has in common \u2013 both positive and negative \u2013 with neighbouring India.To properly understand Pakistan, one must go back to its birth. The country was \"conceived in a hurry and delivered prematurely\", as Tariq Ali puts it. The Indian independence movement matured over decades and had the chance to build enduring democratic and civil institutions, and much of what we call India today had been a recognisable political entity, first under the Mughals and then the British.In contrast, Pakistan had no precedent and was created almost as an afterthought by the British to reward the loyal Muslim League, which had split away from the Congress party out of fear of post-independence marginalisation or persecution.Much more than the rest of the subcontinent, Pakistan was rocked to the core by the massive population shake-ups \u2013 with a huge influx of Muslims from all over India and an almost complete exodus of Hindus and Sikhs. However, Pakistan's apparent religious uniformity masks major ethnic and cultural tensions.The dominance of the Punjabi muhajirun (migrants or refugees) is resented by the native Sindhis, Pashtuns and, earlier, Bengalis, who broke away to form Bangladesh after Pakistan's bloody invasion in 1971.So, despite Pakistan's original conception as a secular democracy, its leaders, faced with the prospect of territorial disintegration and a lack of legitimacy (particularly among non-Punjabis), fell back on the only common denominator, Islam, to try to keep the fragile country together and cement their hold on power \u2013 with disastrous consequences.Regional geopolitics has also been a major factor in Pakistan's instability. India has never been able to forgive Pakistan for breaking away, and Pakistan has always sought to outshine India and is bitter about not being awarded Kashmir. In a parallel with cold war, the India-Pakistan standoff has been far more costly for Pakistan than India, given the disparity in the size of their economies.In addition, the volatility in neighbouring Afghanistan \u2013 and Pakistan's role as a staunch US ally in the cold war, training mujahideen and the Taliban \u2013 has been the cause of one of the most spectacular cases of blowback in recent history: with the monster returning to consume the hand that shaped it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "World news", "Global development", "Politics"], "title": "Pakistan: stifled from birth | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-04-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten days after the government of Pakistan agreed to the imposition of sharia law in Swat, Taliban fighters spilled out of the valley into the neighbouring district of Buner, just 60 miles from the capital, Islamabad. For the 650,000 inhabitants of Buner, the Taliban are not just the law. They man the roadblocks, order NGOs to leave their offices and loot them. Meanwhile local police cower in their barracks. For Buner's residents, the Pakistani state - already a weak concept in the North-West Frontier Province - has just become a virtual one.If the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, reacted with horror and hyperbole (she said Pakistan represented a mortal threat to world security), the response in Islamabad was positively lethargic. It dispatched only six platoons of paramilitaries - not even army soldiers - to retrieve control of bridges and government offices. The prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, said Ms Clinton should understand that local customs are the guarantors of peace in Swat, but also hinted that the peace deal was conditional. Which of them is reading the situation correctly?The physical proximity of the Taliban to Islamabad is misleading. They may have come down from the higher mountains and be threatening the plains. But the Taliban presence in Buner is more of a worry to Mardan, the second largest city in the NWFP, than it is to the Punjab. And it is one thing for men to be told to keep their women indoors in the NWFP and quite another for the same thing to happen in the urban belt running from Islamabad to Lahore, where the very thought is laughable. There would be bloodshed if they tried imposing sharia on Karachi. To the question: will Pakistan fall to the Taliban?, the answer is that parts of the country have already fallen to them. But that does not mean Pakistan as a whole is in danger, even though there are fault lines running through the country, and through the Punjab itself, which militants are exploiting.Relations between the US and Pakistan are at an impasse. Neither can abandon the other, but neither can deliver what the other really wants. Pakistan's army has neither the power nor the will to destroy the Taliban. For those generals who even today are reluctant to cut their ties with the Taliban, the army has swapped a policy of \"gaining strategic depth\" in Afghanistan for one which seeks strategic depth in their own country. On the other hand, there was genuine revulsion when a video of a woman being flogged by the Taliban was released. Which means there are red lines that the Taliban have yet to cross. Unbelievably, many in the military are still waiting for that to happen.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Editorial: Taliban fighters in Pakistan - probing the frontiers"},{"date": "2009-06-12T10:51:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Suicide bombers are said to have killed at least five people and wounded dozens more in almost simultaneous attacks on two cities in Pakistan.A leading anti-Taliban Muslim cleric died in the blast at a religious school in the eastern city of Lahore while a suicide bomber in a pick-up truck set off explosives at a mosque and reportedly destroyed its roof in the north-western garrison town of Nowshera.The attacks, which came soon after Friday prayers, were the latest in a wave of suicide bombings and other incidents mounted in response to military operations against the Taliban in the Swat valley and elsewhere. No one immediately claimed responsibility for the explosions.A moderate cleric, Sarfraz Naeemi, who had issued a fatwa against suicide bombings, died in the Lahore explosion, which destroyed offices in the seminary. Television station al-Jazeera reported that a lone suicide attacker entered the school before detonating the bomb near the cleric.The cleric's brother, Tajwar Naeemi, said seven people were wounded in the attack. \"When I came out of the office a few people went in and the suicide bomber was probably among them,\" he told Reuters.In Nowshera the explosion at the mosque within a military cantonment is said to have killed at least three people and injured more than 100, with more fatalities feared. The roof of the mosque, where both military personnel and civilians are thought to have been worshipping, collapsed, said al-Jazeera.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Two bomb blasts hit Pakistan"},{"date": "2009-06-11T16:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Until this week, Peshawar's Pearl Continental hotel was a rare island of air-conditioned calm in an increasingly dangerous country, for foreigners and local elites only of course. Its bombing this week is a crude but effective reminder that the Taliban is not a spent force.Peshawar, the restless capital of Pakistan's North West Frontier Province, has had many visitors over the past several years. A key outpost on the long trading route that links south with central Asia, for centuries it has been famed as an enchanted if sleepy backwater where anything from liquor to the latest computers could be purchased for a price.That character has changed these past few years. This week's massive bomb blast at the city's premier hotel affirmed Peshawar's transformation into one of the key battlegrounds in the war against the Taliban.Whether the attack was aimed directly at aid agencies delivering humanitarian goods to the families displaced by the war in the NWFP is unclear. But the murder of three UN Food Programme employees along with eight others has for the moment stalled international efforts to deliver humanitarian assistance to the vast numbers made homeless by this war.The attack on the Peshawar Pearl Continental may have had an added meaning for the United States. The US was on the cusp of completing a deal for its purchase as part of a massive expansion of its Peshawar consulate, a key base for the co-ordination of American intelligence in this region. The consulate expansion was part of the $1bn (\u00a3607m) project that will see its missions in Afghanistan and Pakistan expanded ever further.Just as the Islamabad Marriott appeared to be targeted in last September's massive bomb blast because it was frequented by foreign diplomats and American intelligence operatives, the Peshawar Pearl Continental was often frequented by American embassy and intelligence staff and, possibly, their local operatives. The hotel was also frequented by American officials in the 1980s, only in those days they were co-ordinating efforts to arm the most radical, Islamist militants they could muster to fight the godless communists in Afghanistan.Already there is an almost total disconnect between Pakistanis and the several hundreds of Americans and other foreign government workers living in Peshawar and other parts of Pakistan. One rarely meets foreigners in any part of Pakistan these days. The latest string of bombings will exacerbate that disconnect. In Peshawar, ordinary citizens are increasingly avoiding the markets and bazaars for fear of being the next victims of a bomb attack. As one mother in the University Town district told me last week, her son's appointment with the dentist was cut short because the police had received threats that a car laden with explosives was parked around the corner. The dental practice happened to be located close to an office of the Awami National Party, a secular Pashtun nationalist political party currently in government in the NWFP. Thankfully, on that occasion, there was no blast. But many are wondering when their luck will run out.Spare a thought for those who have already faced the worst of fates. The millions made homeless by the conflict were already struggling under the sweltering heat with only minimal access to water, food and electricity. Many, although far from all, were totally reliant on humanitarian aid from UN-coordinated international relief efforts. The UN's decision to pull out of those efforts owing to the security situation leaves these communities in unimaginably worse conditions than before. Compounding this hell, the numbers of displaced are expected to rise.Under immense pressure from the United States, the Pakistan army has expanded its operations in the NWFP to include Orakzai and the Waziristan tribal agencies and Bannu, along the border with Afghanistan but well to the south of the Swat valley. Although largely cleared of Taliban control, operations continue in the Swat valley where pockets of insurgents remain.The simple truth is that it is unclear how deeply the Taliban and those sympathetic to its cause \u2013 to establish an Islamic state along rigid, literal interpretations of scripture as in Afghanistan under the Taliban \u2013 have infiltrated deeper into Pakistan.For years now it has been an open secret that the Afghan Taliban, who with a few exceptions has chosen not to get embroiled in the conflict within Pakistan, has run safe houses in northern Balochistan. Many of its and the Pakistani Taliban's footsoldiers are recruited from the large pool of poor young men of southern Punjab's Seraiki belt, particularly among the Waraich clan that the Mughals and British considered one of the great \"martial races\" of the subcontinent.In short, the latent potential of a broader Taliban insurgency in Pakistan remains strong. As it remains in the international spotlight, Pakistan is in the unenviable position of having to prove that it is capable of defeating the Taliban while, at the same time, ensuring it does not splinter the broad network of largely NWFP-based Taliban militants into the rest of the country. It is the stuff of a general's worst nightmares.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "Global development", "United Nations", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan faces a growing insurgency | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-06-05T12:20:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A suicide blast ripped through a mosque in a mountain village close to Pakistan's Swat Valley today, killing at least 30 people and wounding dozens more. Separately, a roadside bomb killed four soldiers in the tribal belt.The violence was a potent reminder of the militant threat despite claims by the army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, that the battle for Swat had \"decisively turned\" in the military's favour.It coincided with a visit by US envoy Richard Holbrooke, who met relief officials to discuss the plight of 3 million war refugees in North-West Frontier province.Rescuers pulled rubble from the destroyed mosque in Haya Gai, a remote mountain village in Upper Dir district.The local police chief said the confirmed death toll was 30 but scattered body parts \"may make another four to six bodies\".Atif ur Rehman, the top government official in the area, said rain and rugged terrain were hampering rescue efforts. \"I cannot say how many more are dead, but there are scores of wounded,\" he told the Associated Press.The attack targeted a hardy mountain community known to have resisted Taliban encroachment. \"The elders in Haya Gai were threatened at least three or four times because they were opponents of the Taliban,\" said a local journalist, Zahid Jan, speaking by phone from Dir town, about 22 miles (35km) from the blast site.Upper Dir has largely escaped the conflict that has consumed the neighbouring Swat valley over the past month. But three weeks ago the Pakistani army launched air strikes on a Taliban base in Dogra village, a militant stronghold in the area, killing three people, Jan said.The army claims to have pacified large parts of Swat and assured residents it will soon be safe enough for them to return home. However soldiers todayprevented hundreds of people from returning to the valley, saying it was too dangerous.In Islamabad Holbrooke warned that Pakistan could be directly affected by a surge in fighting in Afghanistan, where an extra 17,000 troops are deploying as part of the Obama administration's \"mini-surge\".\"We are concerned there may be some spillover effect, as there was in the past,\" he said, referring to the movement of al-Qaida and Taliban fugitives across the porous 1,500-mile border after 2001.Holbrooke said he would lobby US treasury officials in Washington to help write off Pakistan's debt because the country faced an \"extraordinarily difficult economic situation\".", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Bomb in Pakistan mosque kills at least 30 people"},{"date": "2009-05-31T13:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "As Pakistan wastes away in its existential crisis, a fundamental question about the nature of the country is coming to the fore: are its citizens Pakistanis who happen to be Muslims, or are they Muslims who happen to be Pakistanis? Which comes first, flag or faith?It is not a question that many Pakistanis can readily answer. The vast majority of the country's so-called \"educated elite\" seem to have no qualms about identifying themselves as Muslims first and Pakistanis second. Some feel that their religion is the most important thing to them, and that that's where their first loyalty will always lie. Others admit to having scant regard for religion, but say Pakistan has come to mean so little to them that their religion supersedes their loyalty to the country.This willingness to subordinate state to God, even among the highly educated, lies at the heart of Pakistan's crisis. How can a country be expected to prosper if the majority of its citizens harbour only a secondary allegiance to the state? How can it progress if, as the author MJ Akbar wrote, \"the idea of Pakistan is weaker than the Pakistani\".But what is the idea of Pakistan?Back in the heady days of the 1940s, Muhammad Ali Jinnah rallied a people to nationhood. Despite his Anglophone status and Victorian manners, he carved out a separate homeland for India's Muslims. But, today, an erudite, westernised lawyer like Jinnah would find it impossible to win a popular election in Pakistan.For the real Jinnah is now irrelevant in the country that reveres him as \"Quaid-e-Azam\", or founder of the nation. Few Pakistanis have the time or inclination to think about their founder's ideas. Jinnah's idea of Pakistan \u2013 south Asian Muslim nationalism \u2013 has been overrun by the dogma of Islamic universalism.The modern Pakistani identity is shaped largely by the negation of an Indian-Hindu identity and the adoption of a global pan-Islamic charter. Economic advancement is taken to mean westernisation or worse, Indianisation. At every turn, Pakistanis seem more likely to unite as brothers in Islam than as sons of the same soil.Moreover, Pakistan's fear of vilification and failure has given birth to an increasingly paranoid brand of Islam that seeks to impose stricter controls \u2013 on education, women's rights, dancing, beardlessness, and sex \u2013 and close society to all forms of modernity. This paranoid Islam, represented by hardline outfits such as the Tablighi Jamaat, is Pakistan's fastest-growing brand of faith.Pakistan is now at a crossroads, facing an uneasy moment of truth. To survive, its citizens must act in unison or risk seeing every moderate tendency in the country purged by a clamour of illiberal, religious voices.Today's crisis calls for every Pakistani to ask serious questions: What should be the idea of Pakistan? Are you Pakistanis who happen to be Muslims, Christians, or Hindus? Or are you members of a global Islamic ummah who just happen to live in Karachi or Lahore?The real challenge, and the ultimate solution, is to get people to think and talk about these questions. But this must be a debate between people, and within people. Nothing will be solved by searching for the \"true Islam\" or by quoting the Koran.The point is that eventually, despite strong regional loyalties and various cultural and religious differences, the majority can identify as being simply \"Pakistani\" \u2013 even though they may harbour radical differences about what this might mean. The real idea of Pakistan, ultimately, must be multiplicity.Today, we have come to understand ourselves as composites; often contradictory and internally incompatible. In the Babarnama, for example, we see the internal contradictions in the personality of the founder of the Mughal Empire. When describing his conquest of Chanderi in 1528, Babar offers gruesome details of the gory slaughter of many \"infidels\" but just a few sentences later he talks at length about Chanderi's lakes, flowing streams and sweet water. So who was Babar, bloodthirsty tyrant, humanist poet, or both \u2013 and not necessarily at odds with each other?Pakistan's selfhood must be expanded ad maximum and made so capacious that it accommodates its Punjabis, Sindhis, Pathans and Balochis, and their religions \u2013 Sunni, Shia, Hindu, Christian, Parsi, Qadhianis \u2013 until it is possible to call them all equally \"Pakistani\". That must be the ultimate goal, and step one in the long, winding battle to save Pakistan.That is a national idea worth striving for \u2013 and Pakistan's intellectuals, its elite and its youth must be at the forefront of the battle. The Crescent has cast a seemingly interminable shadow across the length of Pakistan. Its tragedies and failings are a result of what is happening in God's name, not Jinnah's. To save Pakistan, Jinnah's spirit, his moth-eaten ideals, must be renewed and Pakistanis must ask themselves what Pakistan really means.Rakesh Mani is a 2009 Teach for India fellow, working with low-income schools in Mumbai. He is also a writer and commentator who contributes to a variety of publications. Zehra Ahmed is a Pakistani architect, designer and writer.Copyright: Project Syndicate, 2009.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Religion", "Islam"], "title": "For Pakistan, or for Islam? | Rakesh Mani | Zehra Ahmed"},{"date": "2009-08-20T11:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Despite the recent offensive by the Pakistani army in the Swat Valley and by Nato in Helmand province, the \"Talibanisation\" of both Afghanistan and Pakistan proceeds apace. Vast parts of the Afghan south and a large region in western Pakistan are still under de facto control of Taliban militants who enforce a violent form of sharia law.Western responses oscillate between calls for a secular alternative to the religious fundamentalism of the Taliban and attempts to engage the moderate elements among them. Neither will solve the underlying religious clash between indigenous Sufi Islam and the Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi extremism. The UK and US must change strategy and adopt a policy that supports the peaceful indigenous Muslim tradition of Sufism while thwarting Saudi Arabia's promotion of the dangerous Wahhabi creed that fuels violence and sectarian tension.As Afghanistan goes to the polls this week, western political and military leaders now recognise that stability and peace in the country cannot be created by military force alone. Like the \"surge\" strategy in Iraq which reduced suicide bombings by driving a wedge between indigenous Sunnis and foreign jihadists, the US and its European allies will try to separate the Taliban from al-Qaida fighters who infiltrate Afghanistan from across the border in Pakistan. By combining \"surgical\" strikes against terrorists in the Afghan-Pakistani border region with a political strategy aimed at \"moderate\" Taliban, President Obama hopes to save the US mission from disaster.The problem is that those Taliban who would be prepared to talk have little leverage and those who have influence feel that they have little incentive to compromise, as they have gained the upper hand. Unlike many Sunnis in Iraq, most Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan have embraced the puritanical and fundamentalist Islam of the Wahhabi mullahs from Saudi Arabia who wage a ruthless war not just against western \"infidels\" but also against fellow Muslims they consider to be apostates, in particular the Sufis.Sufi Islam is not limited to the southern Pakistani province of Sindh on the border with India. It also exists elsewhere in Pakistan and has been present in Afghanistan for centuries, as exemplified by the 18th-century poet and mystic Rahman Baba whose shrine at the foot of the Khyber Pass (linking Afghanistan and Pakistan) still attracts many Sufi faithful from both sides of the border.All this changed in the 1980s when during the Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion, elements in Saudi Arabia poured in money, arms and extremist ideology. Through a network of madrasas, Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi Islam indoctrinated young Muslims with fundamentalist Puritanism, denouncing Sufi music and poetry as decadent and immoral. At Attock, not far from Rahman Baba's shrine on the Khyber Pass, stands the Haqqania madrassa, one of the most radical schools where the Taliban leader Mullah Omar was trained. Across the Pakistani border, the tolerant Sufi-minded Barelvi form of indigenous Islam has also been supplanted by the hardline Wahhabi creed.This madrassa-inspired and Saudi-financed Wahhabi Islam is destroying indigenous Islam in both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Crucially, it is imposing a radical creed that represents a distortion and perversion of true Islam. Wahhabi followers beheaded a Polish geologist in February (as revenge for Polish troops in Afghanistan) and blew up a century-old shrine dedicated to Rahman Baba in the Pakistani town of Peshawar in March.The actions of the west and its Afghan and Pakistani allies are making matters worse. By causing civilian deaths through aerial bombings, the US is driving ordinary Afghans and Pakistani into the arms of the jihadi terrorists. By declaring sharia law in Pakistan's northwestern Swat region to appease the local Taliban and by using Islamism in the ongoing conflict with India over Kashmir, Pakistan's government is emboldening the extremists and undermining Sufi Islam.What is required, first of all, is to prevent Saudi Arabia from playing a duplicitous game whereby the authorities in Riyadh help the Afghan President Karzai in his attempts to woo moderate Taliban while promoting the violent creed of Wahhabism across this volatile region. The west should call Saudi Arabia's bluff and not surrender to Riyadh's threats of ending security co-operation and information exchange on international terrorism which thrives on Saudi-exported Wahhabi ideology.The west and Muslim countries such as Jordan should also put pressure on the Pakistani authorities to confront Wahhabism by expelling Saudi hate preachers, closing the Wahhabi madrassas and establishing schools that teach the peaceful Islam of Sufism.By itself this strategy will of course not be sufficient to eradicate violence in Afghanistan and Pakistan. But without an alternative policy based on religion, this religious conflict will further escalate.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Religion", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan must confront Wahhabism | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-08-20T11:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Despite the recent offensive by the Pakistani army in the Swat Valley and by Nato in Helmand province, the \"Talibanisation\" of both Afghanistan and Pakistan proceeds apace. Vast parts of the Afghan south and a large region in western Pakistan are still under de facto control of Taliban militants who enforce a violent form of sharia law.Western responses oscillate between calls for a secular alternative to the religious fundamentalism of the Taliban and attempts to engage the moderate elements among them. Neither will solve the underlying religious clash between indigenous Sufi Islam and the Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi extremism. The UK and US must change strategy and adopt a policy that supports the peaceful indigenous Muslim tradition of Sufism while thwarting Saudi Arabia's promotion of the dangerous Wahhabi creed that fuels violence and sectarian tension.As Afghanistan goes to the polls this week, western political and military leaders now recognise that stability and peace in the country cannot be created by military force alone. Like the \"surge\" strategy in Iraq which reduced suicide bombings by driving a wedge between indigenous Sunnis and foreign jihadists, the US and its European allies will try to separate the Taliban from al-Qaida fighters who infiltrate Afghanistan from across the border in Pakistan. By combining \"surgical\" strikes against terrorists in the Afghan-Pakistani border region with a political strategy aimed at \"moderate\" Taliban, President Obama hopes to save the US mission from disaster.The problem is that those Taliban who would be prepared to talk have little leverage and those who have influence feel that they have little incentive to compromise, as they have gained the upper hand. Unlike many Sunnis in Iraq, most Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan have embraced the puritanical and fundamentalist Islam of the Wahhabi mullahs from Saudi Arabia who wage a ruthless war not just against western \"infidels\" but also against fellow Muslims they consider to be apostates, in particular the Sufis.Sufi Islam is not limited to the southern Pakistani province of Sindh on the border with India. It also exists elsewhere in Pakistan and has been present in Afghanistan for centuries, as exemplified by the 18th-century poet and mystic Rahman Baba whose shrine at the foot of the Khyber Pass (linking Afghanistan and Pakistan) still attracts many Sufi faithful from both sides of the border.All this changed in the 1980s when during the Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion, elements in Saudi Arabia poured in money, arms and extremist ideology. Through a network of madrasas, Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi Islam indoctrinated young Muslims with fundamentalist Puritanism, denouncing Sufi music and poetry as decadent and immoral. At Attock, not far from Rahman Baba's shrine on the Khyber Pass, stands the Haqqania madrassa, one of the most radical schools where the Taliban leader Mullah Omar was trained. Across the Pakistani border, the tolerant Sufi-minded Barelvi form of indigenous Islam has also been supplanted by the hardline Wahhabi creed.This madrassa-inspired and Saudi-financed Wahhabi Islam is destroying indigenous Islam in both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Crucially, it is imposing a radical creed that represents a distortion and perversion of true Islam. Wahhabi followers beheaded a Polish geologist in February (as revenge for Polish troops in Afghanistan) and blew up a century-old shrine dedicated to Rahman Baba in the Pakistani town of Peshawar in March.The actions of the west and its Afghan and Pakistani allies are making matters worse. By causing civilian deaths through aerial bombings, the US is driving ordinary Afghans and Pakistani into the arms of the jihadi terrorists. By declaring sharia law in Pakistan's northwestern Swat region to appease the local Taliban and by using Islamism in the ongoing conflict with India over Kashmir, Pakistan's government is emboldening the extremists and undermining Sufi Islam.What is required, first of all, is to prevent Saudi Arabia from playing a duplicitous game whereby the authorities in Riyadh help the Afghan President Karzai in his attempts to woo moderate Taliban while promoting the violent creed of Wahhabism across this volatile region. The west should call Saudi Arabia's bluff and not surrender to Riyadh's threats of ending security co-operation and information exchange on international terrorism which thrives on Saudi-exported Wahhabi ideology.The west and Muslim countries such as Jordan should also put pressure on the Pakistani authorities to confront Wahhabism by expelling Saudi hate preachers, closing the Wahhabi madrassas and establishing schools that teach the peaceful Islam of Sufism.By itself this strategy will of course not be sufficient to eradicate violence in Afghanistan and Pakistan. But without an alternative policy based on religion, this religious conflict will further escalate.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Religion", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan must confront Wahhabism | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-07-31T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the year 1946. The man did not speak English, and yet sat attentively listening to a speech by the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, with great enthusiasm. The listener shouted, clapped, and supported Jinnah's every utterance.\"Why?\" asked another man. \"Why do you support Jinnah when you don't understand what he's talking about?\" The listener responded: \"Because I know Jinnah is on my side. He speaks for me.\"So what did Jinnah create for the average Pakistani? Last week, I visited Pakistan for the first time for a national conference of students from across Pakistan. The student leaders I met, the next generation of Pakistani politicians, unlike Jinnah's listener, understood English and listened attentively to what Maajid Nawaz and I said. Surrounded by the thoughts and candid reflections of students and professors, I realised that Pakistan was in a deep identity crisis. What was Pakistan? If British Pakistanis complain about identity and belonging in Britain, as they do, life in Pakistan did not offer much solace.What was Pakistan? A so-called Islamic state? Well, that's not what Jinnah imagined and self-proclaimed Islamist parties have repeatedly lost elections. A secular state? The Urdu translation of the word \"secular\", ladiniyyat, \"non-religion\", makes the word appear anti-religious in its connotations, yet Pakistan is intensely religious. So what is Pakistan? And why was it created? Where was the sense in leaving behind the majority of Muslims in India, and breaking away to form an independent state for Muslims? And to then have it further divided from Bangladesh in 1971?Where is Pakistan heading? Punjabi, Sindhi, Pahari and similar terms resonated more with some students than did \"Pakistan\". Students I met from Balochistan condemned Pakistan and wanted to break away. In their communities, it was not \"Pakistan zindabad\", \"long live Pakistan\" that was the slogan in public meetings, but \"Pakistan murdabad\", or \"death to Pakistan\".These were sensitive issues, but despite the appearance of fragility I think it is healthy that student leaders were able to discuss these matters openly, unlike in most Arab countries. Issues relating to Kurds in Syria, for example, are matters of arrest and torture. Questioning the wisdom of creating Arab states, or the utility of their rulers, is a matter of political unrest. In contrast, the healthy and robust Pakistani media and civil society make a daily meal of undermining President Asif Ali Zardari and his government .Away from students, campuses and debates surrounding identity and terrorism, life in Pakistan was different from what I'd expected. I imagined that a nation that prides itself on possessing a nuclear bomb, would at least have the infrastructure with which to deliver clean drinking water and regular electricity supply to its people. But no. In major cities with tens of millions of inhabitants, power cuts are still a daily occurrence. For four days in Karachi last week, people had no clean drinking water. Load shedding, or electricity blackouts, also last for days. With heat levels at 45 degrees, the stench, paralysis, misery and anger run deep. How do the children and elderly cope? And yet life goes on.I saw young, tired men with donkeys and pull-carts at traffic lights besides Toyota jeeps driven by overweight men. There were elderly, hunch-backed beggars pleading for pennies from aspiring pop stars with high-end Rolex watches and rich parents. The rich in Pakistan are very rich, with mansions in Surrey and flats in Mayfair. President Zardari himself knows this first hand.I saw prostitutes enticing clients in Lahore's vast red light district, a stone's throw away from those who preach it is haram (forbidden), but failed to provide an alternative to these poor women. Iqbal Hussain, a Pakistani artist and son of and brother to industry women, raises these difficult questions in his paintings of women and their lives in this underworld, ignored publicly, yet cherished privately, by Pakistan's elite.I met elite society in Lahore, who could not believe that I could be a Muslim and a liberal. For me, there are no contradictions and yet, for them, they felt the need to declare their atheism with pride, expecting me to admire their freedom. I do. But I don't share their convictions, and lament how religious extremists have successfully chased decent people away from Islam. And how the attraction of the west has been reduced to professing atheism.I judge nations by their bookshops. When I was living in Saudi Arabia, I was always frustrated by how the narrow-minded authorities banned books and filtered my choice to dull subjects, and filled bookshops with gadgets rather than books. In contrast, Pakistan is a free country with bookshops that store everything from Lady Windermere's Fan to the Kama Sutra. That confident, boisterous attitude to books and unbridled discussions leaves Pakistan in a better position than other Muslim-majority countries.At shrines of prominent Muslim saints, especially the much-loved Bulleh Shah, I saw ordinary people visit, sing freely, dance and play centuries-old musical instruments. Where is this joy in Britain's Islamic communities? In Pakistan's shrines, I witnessed an Islam of the soul \u2013 an inner joy that allowed people to let their hair down, away from the ritual-obsessed, but vacuous clerics. Late into the night, I watched the merriment of their divine dances.And by day I was back to addressing young professionals and students on getting away from blaming India and the west for their problems. Without doubt, they appreciated a new message that Islam and secularism were not polar opposites, that the west was not a monolith, and Pakistan can find a place in the modern world free from terror and extremism. And they rightly complained about the violation of Pakistan's sovereignty by US drone attacks, the corruption of their ruling class and the dangerous emergence of dynastic politics.Unlike Jinnah's audiences, the young Pakistani students understood English and grasped what was said. But do they believe that ordinary westerners are on their side? That we in the west will respect and extend friendships to people across the world as equals, as humans? And stop launching ideological wars? I am not sure, and nor are ordinary Pakistanis. After all, Barack Obama warned Pakistan that war was on the table. We do not win hearts and minds by threatening war.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Can we befriend Pakistan? | Ed Husain"},{"date": "2009-08-20T11:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Despite the recent offensive by the Pakistani army in the Swat Valley and by Nato in Helmand province, the \"Talibanisation\" of both Afghanistan and Pakistan proceeds apace. Vast parts of the Afghan south and a large region in western Pakistan are still under de facto control of Taliban militants who enforce a violent form of sharia law.Western responses oscillate between calls for a secular alternative to the religious fundamentalism of the Taliban and attempts to engage the moderate elements among them. Neither will solve the underlying religious clash between indigenous Sufi Islam and the Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi extremism. The UK and US must change strategy and adopt a policy that supports the peaceful indigenous Muslim tradition of Sufism while thwarting Saudi Arabia's promotion of the dangerous Wahhabi creed that fuels violence and sectarian tension.As Afghanistan goes to the polls this week, western political and military leaders now recognise that stability and peace in the country cannot be created by military force alone. Like the \"surge\" strategy in Iraq which reduced suicide bombings by driving a wedge between indigenous Sunnis and foreign jihadists, the US and its European allies will try to separate the Taliban from al-Qaida fighters who infiltrate Afghanistan from across the border in Pakistan. By combining \"surgical\" strikes against terrorists in the Afghan-Pakistani border region with a political strategy aimed at \"moderate\" Taliban, President Obama hopes to save the US mission from disaster.The problem is that those Taliban who would be prepared to talk have little leverage and those who have influence feel that they have little incentive to compromise, as they have gained the upper hand. Unlike many Sunnis in Iraq, most Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan have embraced the puritanical and fundamentalist Islam of the Wahhabi mullahs from Saudi Arabia who wage a ruthless war not just against western \"infidels\" but also against fellow Muslims they consider to be apostates, in particular the Sufis.Sufi Islam is not limited to the southern Pakistani province of Sindh on the border with India. It also exists elsewhere in Pakistan and has been present in Afghanistan for centuries, as exemplified by the 18th-century poet and mystic Rahman Baba whose shrine at the foot of the Khyber Pass (linking Afghanistan and Pakistan) still attracts many Sufi faithful from both sides of the border.All this changed in the 1980s when during the Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion, elements in Saudi Arabia poured in money, arms and extremist ideology. Through a network of madrasas, Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi Islam indoctrinated young Muslims with fundamentalist Puritanism, denouncing Sufi music and poetry as decadent and immoral. At Attock, not far from Rahman Baba's shrine on the Khyber Pass, stands the Haqqania madrassa, one of the most radical schools where the Taliban leader Mullah Omar was trained. Across the Pakistani border, the tolerant Sufi-minded Barelvi form of indigenous Islam has also been supplanted by the hardline Wahhabi creed.This madrassa-inspired and Saudi-financed Wahhabi Islam is destroying indigenous Islam in both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Crucially, it is imposing a radical creed that represents a distortion and perversion of true Islam. Wahhabi followers beheaded a Polish geologist in February (as revenge for Polish troops in Afghanistan) and blew up a century-old shrine dedicated to Rahman Baba in the Pakistani town of Peshawar in March.The actions of the west and its Afghan and Pakistani allies are making matters worse. By causing civilian deaths through aerial bombings, the US is driving ordinary Afghans and Pakistani into the arms of the jihadi terrorists. By declaring sharia law in Pakistan's northwestern Swat region to appease the local Taliban and by using Islamism in the ongoing conflict with India over Kashmir, Pakistan's government is emboldening the extremists and undermining Sufi Islam.What is required, first of all, is to prevent Saudi Arabia from playing a duplicitous game whereby the authorities in Riyadh help the Afghan President Karzai in his attempts to woo moderate Taliban while promoting the violent creed of Wahhabism across this volatile region. The west should call Saudi Arabia's bluff and not surrender to Riyadh's threats of ending security co-operation and information exchange on international terrorism which thrives on Saudi-exported Wahhabi ideology.The west and Muslim countries such as Jordan should also put pressure on the Pakistani authorities to confront Wahhabism by expelling Saudi hate preachers, closing the Wahhabi madrassas and establishing schools that teach the peaceful Islam of Sufism.By itself this strategy will of course not be sufficient to eradicate violence in Afghanistan and Pakistan. But without an alternative policy based on religion, this religious conflict will further escalate.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Religion", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan must confront Wahhabism | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-07-31T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the year 1946. The man did not speak English, and yet sat attentively listening to a speech by the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, with great enthusiasm. The listener shouted, clapped, and supported Jinnah's every utterance.\"Why?\" asked another man. \"Why do you support Jinnah when you don't understand what he's talking about?\" The listener responded: \"Because I know Jinnah is on my side. He speaks for me.\"So what did Jinnah create for the average Pakistani? Last week, I visited Pakistan for the first time for a national conference of students from across Pakistan. The student leaders I met, the next generation of Pakistani politicians, unlike Jinnah's listener, understood English and listened attentively to what Maajid Nawaz and I said. Surrounded by the thoughts and candid reflections of students and professors, I realised that Pakistan was in a deep identity crisis. What was Pakistan? If British Pakistanis complain about identity and belonging in Britain, as they do, life in Pakistan did not offer much solace.What was Pakistan? A so-called Islamic state? Well, that's not what Jinnah imagined and self-proclaimed Islamist parties have repeatedly lost elections. A secular state? The Urdu translation of the word \"secular\", ladiniyyat, \"non-religion\", makes the word appear anti-religious in its connotations, yet Pakistan is intensely religious. So what is Pakistan? And why was it created? Where was the sense in leaving behind the majority of Muslims in India, and breaking away to form an independent state for Muslims? And to then have it further divided from Bangladesh in 1971?Where is Pakistan heading? Punjabi, Sindhi, Pahari and similar terms resonated more with some students than did \"Pakistan\". Students I met from Balochistan condemned Pakistan and wanted to break away. In their communities, it was not \"Pakistan zindabad\", \"long live Pakistan\" that was the slogan in public meetings, but \"Pakistan murdabad\", or \"death to Pakistan\".These were sensitive issues, but despite the appearance of fragility I think it is healthy that student leaders were able to discuss these matters openly, unlike in most Arab countries. Issues relating to Kurds in Syria, for example, are matters of arrest and torture. Questioning the wisdom of creating Arab states, or the utility of their rulers, is a matter of political unrest. In contrast, the healthy and robust Pakistani media and civil society make a daily meal of undermining President Asif Ali Zardari and his government .Away from students, campuses and debates surrounding identity and terrorism, life in Pakistan was different from what I'd expected. I imagined that a nation that prides itself on possessing a nuclear bomb, would at least have the infrastructure with which to deliver clean drinking water and regular electricity supply to its people. But no. In major cities with tens of millions of inhabitants, power cuts are still a daily occurrence. For four days in Karachi last week, people had no clean drinking water. Load shedding, or electricity blackouts, also last for days. With heat levels at 45 degrees, the stench, paralysis, misery and anger run deep. How do the children and elderly cope? And yet life goes on.I saw young, tired men with donkeys and pull-carts at traffic lights besides Toyota jeeps driven by overweight men. There were elderly, hunch-backed beggars pleading for pennies from aspiring pop stars with high-end Rolex watches and rich parents. The rich in Pakistan are very rich, with mansions in Surrey and flats in Mayfair. President Zardari himself knows this first hand.I saw prostitutes enticing clients in Lahore's vast red light district, a stone's throw away from those who preach it is haram (forbidden), but failed to provide an alternative to these poor women. Iqbal Hussain, a Pakistani artist and son of and brother to industry women, raises these difficult questions in his paintings of women and their lives in this underworld, ignored publicly, yet cherished privately, by Pakistan's elite.I met elite society in Lahore, who could not believe that I could be a Muslim and a liberal. For me, there are no contradictions and yet, for them, they felt the need to declare their atheism with pride, expecting me to admire their freedom. I do. But I don't share their convictions, and lament how religious extremists have successfully chased decent people away from Islam. And how the attraction of the west has been reduced to professing atheism.I judge nations by their bookshops. When I was living in Saudi Arabia, I was always frustrated by how the narrow-minded authorities banned books and filtered my choice to dull subjects, and filled bookshops with gadgets rather than books. In contrast, Pakistan is a free country with bookshops that store everything from Lady Windermere's Fan to the Kama Sutra. That confident, boisterous attitude to books and unbridled discussions leaves Pakistan in a better position than other Muslim-majority countries.At shrines of prominent Muslim saints, especially the much-loved Bulleh Shah, I saw ordinary people visit, sing freely, dance and play centuries-old musical instruments. Where is this joy in Britain's Islamic communities? In Pakistan's shrines, I witnessed an Islam of the soul \u2013 an inner joy that allowed people to let their hair down, away from the ritual-obsessed, but vacuous clerics. Late into the night, I watched the merriment of their divine dances.And by day I was back to addressing young professionals and students on getting away from blaming India and the west for their problems. Without doubt, they appreciated a new message that Islam and secularism were not polar opposites, that the west was not a monolith, and Pakistan can find a place in the modern world free from terror and extremism. And they rightly complained about the violation of Pakistan's sovereignty by US drone attacks, the corruption of their ruling class and the dangerous emergence of dynastic politics.Unlike Jinnah's audiences, the young Pakistani students understood English and grasped what was said. But do they believe that ordinary westerners are on their side? That we in the west will respect and extend friendships to people across the world as equals, as humans? And stop launching ideological wars? I am not sure, and nor are ordinary Pakistanis. After all, Barack Obama warned Pakistan that war was on the table. We do not win hearts and minds by threatening war.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Can we befriend Pakistan? | Ed Husain"},{"date": "2009-07-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 17 July 2009Assessing the outcome of the Pakistani army's anti-Taliban offensive in Buner and Swat, a leader comment cited the International Committee of the Red Cross as one of the authorities for saying that no large-scale human rights abuses were found to have been committed. The ICRC has not made any statement about its monitoring work, which is kept confidential. Careers have been made out of predicting the imminent breakup of Pakistan. But even for the resolute, the events of March and May were hard to take. Militants appeared to strike any target in the country with impunity, be it the visiting Sri Lankan cricket team or the offices of the Inter-Services Intelligence agency in Lahore. Many, too, doubted whether the army would have the political will - let alone the military resolve - to take the Taliban on in Buner and Swat. But it did, triggering the exodus of nearly 2 million refugees in the process. Now that the first refugees are starting to return after two months of sporadic fighting, it is time to assess the outcome.The worst has not happened. The army has avoided causing heavy civilian casualties, which were a feature of previous forays such as the one in Bajaur, and concentrated its fire on the militants themselves. Some civilians have been caught in the crossfire, but according to the International Committee of the Red Cross and Human Rights Watch there have been no large-scale violations of international law. Nor are army chiefs exaggerating the effect that their campaign has had on the Taliban. Military intelligence gave a sober assessment yesterday, admitting that a sizeable militant contingent was still left in the valley, about 40% of their original estimate of up to 5,000 fighters. But fighters have been ejected from the major population centres like Mingora. The army claims it has killed 1,700 fighters, but it has yet to reach their leaders, like Baitullah Mehsud, who remains at large.This is a mixed picture, which could change if a convoy of returning refugees was bombed, or the Taliban infiltrated town centres once again. But it is not the doomsday scenario being predicted two months ago. Swat is no longer a Taliban fortress and if resettlement is done with patience and care, and if civil militias weed the militants out, it will not be again. For this, credit is due to the army, which has restored the writ of the Pakistani state in Swat. What now has to happen here, as in Afghanistan, is that the provincial government has to re-emerge from its bunkers and fill the space liberated by combat.But they are not the only ones. With the exception of the US, the international community has yet to deliver on the $543m aid appeal the UN made in May. This aid is needed today even more than it was when the refugee exodus was on. Farmers who return to find their crops destroyed or shopkeepers who find their businesses looted will need food aid to survive. International donors need to keep alive to the fact that previous sweeps of this territory have all foundered at this very point.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Refugees", "United Nations", "Global development", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan: Disaster averted | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-08-20T11:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Despite the recent offensive by the Pakistani army in the Swat Valley and by Nato in Helmand province, the \"Talibanisation\" of both Afghanistan and Pakistan proceeds apace. Vast parts of the Afghan south and a large region in western Pakistan are still under de facto control of Taliban militants who enforce a violent form of sharia law.Western responses oscillate between calls for a secular alternative to the religious fundamentalism of the Taliban and attempts to engage the moderate elements among them. Neither will solve the underlying religious clash between indigenous Sufi Islam and the Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi extremism. The UK and US must change strategy and adopt a policy that supports the peaceful indigenous Muslim tradition of Sufism while thwarting Saudi Arabia's promotion of the dangerous Wahhabi creed that fuels violence and sectarian tension.As Afghanistan goes to the polls this week, western political and military leaders now recognise that stability and peace in the country cannot be created by military force alone. Like the \"surge\" strategy in Iraq which reduced suicide bombings by driving a wedge between indigenous Sunnis and foreign jihadists, the US and its European allies will try to separate the Taliban from al-Qaida fighters who infiltrate Afghanistan from across the border in Pakistan. By combining \"surgical\" strikes against terrorists in the Afghan-Pakistani border region with a political strategy aimed at \"moderate\" Taliban, President Obama hopes to save the US mission from disaster.The problem is that those Taliban who would be prepared to talk have little leverage and those who have influence feel that they have little incentive to compromise, as they have gained the upper hand. Unlike many Sunnis in Iraq, most Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan have embraced the puritanical and fundamentalist Islam of the Wahhabi mullahs from Saudi Arabia who wage a ruthless war not just against western \"infidels\" but also against fellow Muslims they consider to be apostates, in particular the Sufis.Sufi Islam is not limited to the southern Pakistani province of Sindh on the border with India. It also exists elsewhere in Pakistan and has been present in Afghanistan for centuries, as exemplified by the 18th-century poet and mystic Rahman Baba whose shrine at the foot of the Khyber Pass (linking Afghanistan and Pakistan) still attracts many Sufi faithful from both sides of the border.All this changed in the 1980s when during the Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion, elements in Saudi Arabia poured in money, arms and extremist ideology. Through a network of madrasas, Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi Islam indoctrinated young Muslims with fundamentalist Puritanism, denouncing Sufi music and poetry as decadent and immoral. At Attock, not far from Rahman Baba's shrine on the Khyber Pass, stands the Haqqania madrassa, one of the most radical schools where the Taliban leader Mullah Omar was trained. Across the Pakistani border, the tolerant Sufi-minded Barelvi form of indigenous Islam has also been supplanted by the hardline Wahhabi creed.This madrassa-inspired and Saudi-financed Wahhabi Islam is destroying indigenous Islam in both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Crucially, it is imposing a radical creed that represents a distortion and perversion of true Islam. Wahhabi followers beheaded a Polish geologist in February (as revenge for Polish troops in Afghanistan) and blew up a century-old shrine dedicated to Rahman Baba in the Pakistani town of Peshawar in March.The actions of the west and its Afghan and Pakistani allies are making matters worse. By causing civilian deaths through aerial bombings, the US is driving ordinary Afghans and Pakistani into the arms of the jihadi terrorists. By declaring sharia law in Pakistan's northwestern Swat region to appease the local Taliban and by using Islamism in the ongoing conflict with India over Kashmir, Pakistan's government is emboldening the extremists and undermining Sufi Islam.What is required, first of all, is to prevent Saudi Arabia from playing a duplicitous game whereby the authorities in Riyadh help the Afghan President Karzai in his attempts to woo moderate Taliban while promoting the violent creed of Wahhabism across this volatile region. The west should call Saudi Arabia's bluff and not surrender to Riyadh's threats of ending security co-operation and information exchange on international terrorism which thrives on Saudi-exported Wahhabi ideology.The west and Muslim countries such as Jordan should also put pressure on the Pakistani authorities to confront Wahhabism by expelling Saudi hate preachers, closing the Wahhabi madrassas and establishing schools that teach the peaceful Islam of Sufism.By itself this strategy will of course not be sufficient to eradicate violence in Afghanistan and Pakistan. But without an alternative policy based on religion, this religious conflict will further escalate.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Religion", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan must confront Wahhabism | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-07-31T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the year 1946. The man did not speak English, and yet sat attentively listening to a speech by the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, with great enthusiasm. The listener shouted, clapped, and supported Jinnah's every utterance.\"Why?\" asked another man. \"Why do you support Jinnah when you don't understand what he's talking about?\" The listener responded: \"Because I know Jinnah is on my side. He speaks for me.\"So what did Jinnah create for the average Pakistani? Last week, I visited Pakistan for the first time for a national conference of students from across Pakistan. The student leaders I met, the next generation of Pakistani politicians, unlike Jinnah's listener, understood English and listened attentively to what Maajid Nawaz and I said. Surrounded by the thoughts and candid reflections of students and professors, I realised that Pakistan was in a deep identity crisis. What was Pakistan? If British Pakistanis complain about identity and belonging in Britain, as they do, life in Pakistan did not offer much solace.What was Pakistan? A so-called Islamic state? Well, that's not what Jinnah imagined and self-proclaimed Islamist parties have repeatedly lost elections. A secular state? The Urdu translation of the word \"secular\", ladiniyyat, \"non-religion\", makes the word appear anti-religious in its connotations, yet Pakistan is intensely religious. So what is Pakistan? And why was it created? Where was the sense in leaving behind the majority of Muslims in India, and breaking away to form an independent state for Muslims? And to then have it further divided from Bangladesh in 1971?Where is Pakistan heading? Punjabi, Sindhi, Pahari and similar terms resonated more with some students than did \"Pakistan\". Students I met from Balochistan condemned Pakistan and wanted to break away. In their communities, it was not \"Pakistan zindabad\", \"long live Pakistan\" that was the slogan in public meetings, but \"Pakistan murdabad\", or \"death to Pakistan\".These were sensitive issues, but despite the appearance of fragility I think it is healthy that student leaders were able to discuss these matters openly, unlike in most Arab countries. Issues relating to Kurds in Syria, for example, are matters of arrest and torture. Questioning the wisdom of creating Arab states, or the utility of their rulers, is a matter of political unrest. In contrast, the healthy and robust Pakistani media and civil society make a daily meal of undermining President Asif Ali Zardari and his government .Away from students, campuses and debates surrounding identity and terrorism, life in Pakistan was different from what I'd expected. I imagined that a nation that prides itself on possessing a nuclear bomb, would at least have the infrastructure with which to deliver clean drinking water and regular electricity supply to its people. But no. In major cities with tens of millions of inhabitants, power cuts are still a daily occurrence. For four days in Karachi last week, people had no clean drinking water. Load shedding, or electricity blackouts, also last for days. With heat levels at 45 degrees, the stench, paralysis, misery and anger run deep. How do the children and elderly cope? And yet life goes on.I saw young, tired men with donkeys and pull-carts at traffic lights besides Toyota jeeps driven by overweight men. There were elderly, hunch-backed beggars pleading for pennies from aspiring pop stars with high-end Rolex watches and rich parents. The rich in Pakistan are very rich, with mansions in Surrey and flats in Mayfair. President Zardari himself knows this first hand.I saw prostitutes enticing clients in Lahore's vast red light district, a stone's throw away from those who preach it is haram (forbidden), but failed to provide an alternative to these poor women. Iqbal Hussain, a Pakistani artist and son of and brother to industry women, raises these difficult questions in his paintings of women and their lives in this underworld, ignored publicly, yet cherished privately, by Pakistan's elite.I met elite society in Lahore, who could not believe that I could be a Muslim and a liberal. For me, there are no contradictions and yet, for them, they felt the need to declare their atheism with pride, expecting me to admire their freedom. I do. But I don't share their convictions, and lament how religious extremists have successfully chased decent people away from Islam. And how the attraction of the west has been reduced to professing atheism.I judge nations by their bookshops. When I was living in Saudi Arabia, I was always frustrated by how the narrow-minded authorities banned books and filtered my choice to dull subjects, and filled bookshops with gadgets rather than books. In contrast, Pakistan is a free country with bookshops that store everything from Lady Windermere's Fan to the Kama Sutra. That confident, boisterous attitude to books and unbridled discussions leaves Pakistan in a better position than other Muslim-majority countries.At shrines of prominent Muslim saints, especially the much-loved Bulleh Shah, I saw ordinary people visit, sing freely, dance and play centuries-old musical instruments. Where is this joy in Britain's Islamic communities? In Pakistan's shrines, I witnessed an Islam of the soul \u2013 an inner joy that allowed people to let their hair down, away from the ritual-obsessed, but vacuous clerics. Late into the night, I watched the merriment of their divine dances.And by day I was back to addressing young professionals and students on getting away from blaming India and the west for their problems. Without doubt, they appreciated a new message that Islam and secularism were not polar opposites, that the west was not a monolith, and Pakistan can find a place in the modern world free from terror and extremism. And they rightly complained about the violation of Pakistan's sovereignty by US drone attacks, the corruption of their ruling class and the dangerous emergence of dynastic politics.Unlike Jinnah's audiences, the young Pakistani students understood English and grasped what was said. But do they believe that ordinary westerners are on their side? That we in the west will respect and extend friendships to people across the world as equals, as humans? And stop launching ideological wars? I am not sure, and nor are ordinary Pakistanis. After all, Barack Obama warned Pakistan that war was on the table. We do not win hearts and minds by threatening war.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Can we befriend Pakistan? | Ed Husain"},{"date": "2009-07-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 17 July 2009Assessing the outcome of the Pakistani army's anti-Taliban offensive in Buner and Swat, a leader comment cited the International Committee of the Red Cross as one of the authorities for saying that no large-scale human rights abuses were found to have been committed. The ICRC has not made any statement about its monitoring work, which is kept confidential. Careers have been made out of predicting the imminent breakup of Pakistan. But even for the resolute, the events of March and May were hard to take. Militants appeared to strike any target in the country with impunity, be it the visiting Sri Lankan cricket team or the offices of the Inter-Services Intelligence agency in Lahore. Many, too, doubted whether the army would have the political will - let alone the military resolve - to take the Taliban on in Buner and Swat. But it did, triggering the exodus of nearly 2 million refugees in the process. Now that the first refugees are starting to return after two months of sporadic fighting, it is time to assess the outcome.The worst has not happened. The army has avoided causing heavy civilian casualties, which were a feature of previous forays such as the one in Bajaur, and concentrated its fire on the militants themselves. Some civilians have been caught in the crossfire, but according to the International Committee of the Red Cross and Human Rights Watch there have been no large-scale violations of international law. Nor are army chiefs exaggerating the effect that their campaign has had on the Taliban. Military intelligence gave a sober assessment yesterday, admitting that a sizeable militant contingent was still left in the valley, about 40% of their original estimate of up to 5,000 fighters. But fighters have been ejected from the major population centres like Mingora. The army claims it has killed 1,700 fighters, but it has yet to reach their leaders, like Baitullah Mehsud, who remains at large.This is a mixed picture, which could change if a convoy of returning refugees was bombed, or the Taliban infiltrated town centres once again. But it is not the doomsday scenario being predicted two months ago. Swat is no longer a Taliban fortress and if resettlement is done with patience and care, and if civil militias weed the militants out, it will not be again. For this, credit is due to the army, which has restored the writ of the Pakistani state in Swat. What now has to happen here, as in Afghanistan, is that the provincial government has to re-emerge from its bunkers and fill the space liberated by combat.But they are not the only ones. With the exception of the US, the international community has yet to deliver on the $543m aid appeal the UN made in May. This aid is needed today even more than it was when the refugee exodus was on. Farmers who return to find their crops destroyed or shopkeepers who find their businesses looted will need food aid to survive. International donors need to keep alive to the fact that previous sweeps of this territory have all foundered at this very point.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Refugees", "United Nations", "Global development", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan: Disaster averted | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-02T11:14:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Gunmen wounded Pakistan's religious affairs minister in an attack in broad daylight today in Islamabad.Local media said Saeed Kazmi was shot in his car and his driver killed.According to Geo News, two gunmen on a motorbike fired at the vehicle before escaping. The minister is said to have been shot in the knee and was undergoing an operation.\"Gunmen sprayed bullets on the minister's car,\" said a police officer who identified himself as Qasim. He said Kazmi was in a stable condition.The minister has been critical of Islamist militants blamed for scores of attacks in Pakistan over the last two and a half years. Last month, Kazmi defended the government offensive in the Swat valley that displaced hundreds of thousands of civilians from what was once a popular tourist area.He said the government had tried its best to restore order through peaceful means, and blamed extremists for attacking civilians and disregarding a truce. A military operation, he said, had become imperative in view of the frequent suicide attacks against security forces.The army launched a campaign in April to clear the Taliban from Swat and Buner, two valleys a few hours' drive from Islamabad. Pakistan has been on high alert for retaliatory attacks by Taliban insurgents and groups linked to al-Qaida since a US missile strike killed the Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud early last month.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Al-Qaida"], "title": "Pakistan minister Saeed Kazmi injured in shooting"},{"date": "2009-08-20T11:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Despite the recent offensive by the Pakistani army in the Swat Valley and by Nato in Helmand province, the \"Talibanisation\" of both Afghanistan and Pakistan proceeds apace. Vast parts of the Afghan south and a large region in western Pakistan are still under de facto control of Taliban militants who enforce a violent form of sharia law.Western responses oscillate between calls for a secular alternative to the religious fundamentalism of the Taliban and attempts to engage the moderate elements among them. Neither will solve the underlying religious clash between indigenous Sufi Islam and the Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi extremism. The UK and US must change strategy and adopt a policy that supports the peaceful indigenous Muslim tradition of Sufism while thwarting Saudi Arabia's promotion of the dangerous Wahhabi creed that fuels violence and sectarian tension.As Afghanistan goes to the polls this week, western political and military leaders now recognise that stability and peace in the country cannot be created by military force alone. Like the \"surge\" strategy in Iraq which reduced suicide bombings by driving a wedge between indigenous Sunnis and foreign jihadists, the US and its European allies will try to separate the Taliban from al-Qaida fighters who infiltrate Afghanistan from across the border in Pakistan. By combining \"surgical\" strikes against terrorists in the Afghan-Pakistani border region with a political strategy aimed at \"moderate\" Taliban, President Obama hopes to save the US mission from disaster.The problem is that those Taliban who would be prepared to talk have little leverage and those who have influence feel that they have little incentive to compromise, as they have gained the upper hand. Unlike many Sunnis in Iraq, most Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan have embraced the puritanical and fundamentalist Islam of the Wahhabi mullahs from Saudi Arabia who wage a ruthless war not just against western \"infidels\" but also against fellow Muslims they consider to be apostates, in particular the Sufis.Sufi Islam is not limited to the southern Pakistani province of Sindh on the border with India. It also exists elsewhere in Pakistan and has been present in Afghanistan for centuries, as exemplified by the 18th-century poet and mystic Rahman Baba whose shrine at the foot of the Khyber Pass (linking Afghanistan and Pakistan) still attracts many Sufi faithful from both sides of the border.All this changed in the 1980s when during the Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion, elements in Saudi Arabia poured in money, arms and extremist ideology. Through a network of madrasas, Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi Islam indoctrinated young Muslims with fundamentalist Puritanism, denouncing Sufi music and poetry as decadent and immoral. At Attock, not far from Rahman Baba's shrine on the Khyber Pass, stands the Haqqania madrassa, one of the most radical schools where the Taliban leader Mullah Omar was trained. Across the Pakistani border, the tolerant Sufi-minded Barelvi form of indigenous Islam has also been supplanted by the hardline Wahhabi creed.This madrassa-inspired and Saudi-financed Wahhabi Islam is destroying indigenous Islam in both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Crucially, it is imposing a radical creed that represents a distortion and perversion of true Islam. Wahhabi followers beheaded a Polish geologist in February (as revenge for Polish troops in Afghanistan) and blew up a century-old shrine dedicated to Rahman Baba in the Pakistani town of Peshawar in March.The actions of the west and its Afghan and Pakistani allies are making matters worse. By causing civilian deaths through aerial bombings, the US is driving ordinary Afghans and Pakistani into the arms of the jihadi terrorists. By declaring sharia law in Pakistan's northwestern Swat region to appease the local Taliban and by using Islamism in the ongoing conflict with India over Kashmir, Pakistan's government is emboldening the extremists and undermining Sufi Islam.What is required, first of all, is to prevent Saudi Arabia from playing a duplicitous game whereby the authorities in Riyadh help the Afghan President Karzai in his attempts to woo moderate Taliban while promoting the violent creed of Wahhabism across this volatile region. The west should call Saudi Arabia's bluff and not surrender to Riyadh's threats of ending security co-operation and information exchange on international terrorism which thrives on Saudi-exported Wahhabi ideology.The west and Muslim countries such as Jordan should also put pressure on the Pakistani authorities to confront Wahhabism by expelling Saudi hate preachers, closing the Wahhabi madrassas and establishing schools that teach the peaceful Islam of Sufism.By itself this strategy will of course not be sufficient to eradicate violence in Afghanistan and Pakistan. But without an alternative policy based on religion, this religious conflict will further escalate.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Religion", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan must confront Wahhabism | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-07-31T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the year 1946. The man did not speak English, and yet sat attentively listening to a speech by the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, with great enthusiasm. The listener shouted, clapped, and supported Jinnah's every utterance.\"Why?\" asked another man. \"Why do you support Jinnah when you don't understand what he's talking about?\" The listener responded: \"Because I know Jinnah is on my side. He speaks for me.\"So what did Jinnah create for the average Pakistani? Last week, I visited Pakistan for the first time for a national conference of students from across Pakistan. The student leaders I met, the next generation of Pakistani politicians, unlike Jinnah's listener, understood English and listened attentively to what Maajid Nawaz and I said. Surrounded by the thoughts and candid reflections of students and professors, I realised that Pakistan was in a deep identity crisis. What was Pakistan? If British Pakistanis complain about identity and belonging in Britain, as they do, life in Pakistan did not offer much solace.What was Pakistan? A so-called Islamic state? Well, that's not what Jinnah imagined and self-proclaimed Islamist parties have repeatedly lost elections. A secular state? The Urdu translation of the word \"secular\", ladiniyyat, \"non-religion\", makes the word appear anti-religious in its connotations, yet Pakistan is intensely religious. So what is Pakistan? And why was it created? Where was the sense in leaving behind the majority of Muslims in India, and breaking away to form an independent state for Muslims? And to then have it further divided from Bangladesh in 1971?Where is Pakistan heading? Punjabi, Sindhi, Pahari and similar terms resonated more with some students than did \"Pakistan\". Students I met from Balochistan condemned Pakistan and wanted to break away. In their communities, it was not \"Pakistan zindabad\", \"long live Pakistan\" that was the slogan in public meetings, but \"Pakistan murdabad\", or \"death to Pakistan\".These were sensitive issues, but despite the appearance of fragility I think it is healthy that student leaders were able to discuss these matters openly, unlike in most Arab countries. Issues relating to Kurds in Syria, for example, are matters of arrest and torture. Questioning the wisdom of creating Arab states, or the utility of their rulers, is a matter of political unrest. In contrast, the healthy and robust Pakistani media and civil society make a daily meal of undermining President Asif Ali Zardari and his government .Away from students, campuses and debates surrounding identity and terrorism, life in Pakistan was different from what I'd expected. I imagined that a nation that prides itself on possessing a nuclear bomb, would at least have the infrastructure with which to deliver clean drinking water and regular electricity supply to its people. But no. In major cities with tens of millions of inhabitants, power cuts are still a daily occurrence. For four days in Karachi last week, people had no clean drinking water. Load shedding, or electricity blackouts, also last for days. With heat levels at 45 degrees, the stench, paralysis, misery and anger run deep. How do the children and elderly cope? And yet life goes on.I saw young, tired men with donkeys and pull-carts at traffic lights besides Toyota jeeps driven by overweight men. There were elderly, hunch-backed beggars pleading for pennies from aspiring pop stars with high-end Rolex watches and rich parents. The rich in Pakistan are very rich, with mansions in Surrey and flats in Mayfair. President Zardari himself knows this first hand.I saw prostitutes enticing clients in Lahore's vast red light district, a stone's throw away from those who preach it is haram (forbidden), but failed to provide an alternative to these poor women. Iqbal Hussain, a Pakistani artist and son of and brother to industry women, raises these difficult questions in his paintings of women and their lives in this underworld, ignored publicly, yet cherished privately, by Pakistan's elite.I met elite society in Lahore, who could not believe that I could be a Muslim and a liberal. For me, there are no contradictions and yet, for them, they felt the need to declare their atheism with pride, expecting me to admire their freedom. I do. But I don't share their convictions, and lament how religious extremists have successfully chased decent people away from Islam. And how the attraction of the west has been reduced to professing atheism.I judge nations by their bookshops. When I was living in Saudi Arabia, I was always frustrated by how the narrow-minded authorities banned books and filtered my choice to dull subjects, and filled bookshops with gadgets rather than books. In contrast, Pakistan is a free country with bookshops that store everything from Lady Windermere's Fan to the Kama Sutra. That confident, boisterous attitude to books and unbridled discussions leaves Pakistan in a better position than other Muslim-majority countries.At shrines of prominent Muslim saints, especially the much-loved Bulleh Shah, I saw ordinary people visit, sing freely, dance and play centuries-old musical instruments. Where is this joy in Britain's Islamic communities? In Pakistan's shrines, I witnessed an Islam of the soul \u2013 an inner joy that allowed people to let their hair down, away from the ritual-obsessed, but vacuous clerics. Late into the night, I watched the merriment of their divine dances.And by day I was back to addressing young professionals and students on getting away from blaming India and the west for their problems. Without doubt, they appreciated a new message that Islam and secularism were not polar opposites, that the west was not a monolith, and Pakistan can find a place in the modern world free from terror and extremism. And they rightly complained about the violation of Pakistan's sovereignty by US drone attacks, the corruption of their ruling class and the dangerous emergence of dynastic politics.Unlike Jinnah's audiences, the young Pakistani students understood English and grasped what was said. But do they believe that ordinary westerners are on their side? That we in the west will respect and extend friendships to people across the world as equals, as humans? And stop launching ideological wars? I am not sure, and nor are ordinary Pakistanis. After all, Barack Obama warned Pakistan that war was on the table. We do not win hearts and minds by threatening war.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Can we befriend Pakistan? | Ed Husain"},{"date": "2009-07-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 17 July 2009Assessing the outcome of the Pakistani army's anti-Taliban offensive in Buner and Swat, a leader comment cited the International Committee of the Red Cross as one of the authorities for saying that no large-scale human rights abuses were found to have been committed. The ICRC has not made any statement about its monitoring work, which is kept confidential. Careers have been made out of predicting the imminent breakup of Pakistan. But even for the resolute, the events of March and May were hard to take. Militants appeared to strike any target in the country with impunity, be it the visiting Sri Lankan cricket team or the offices of the Inter-Services Intelligence agency in Lahore. Many, too, doubted whether the army would have the political will - let alone the military resolve - to take the Taliban on in Buner and Swat. But it did, triggering the exodus of nearly 2 million refugees in the process. Now that the first refugees are starting to return after two months of sporadic fighting, it is time to assess the outcome.The worst has not happened. The army has avoided causing heavy civilian casualties, which were a feature of previous forays such as the one in Bajaur, and concentrated its fire on the militants themselves. Some civilians have been caught in the crossfire, but according to the International Committee of the Red Cross and Human Rights Watch there have been no large-scale violations of international law. Nor are army chiefs exaggerating the effect that their campaign has had on the Taliban. Military intelligence gave a sober assessment yesterday, admitting that a sizeable militant contingent was still left in the valley, about 40% of their original estimate of up to 5,000 fighters. But fighters have been ejected from the major population centres like Mingora. The army claims it has killed 1,700 fighters, but it has yet to reach their leaders, like Baitullah Mehsud, who remains at large.This is a mixed picture, which could change if a convoy of returning refugees was bombed, or the Taliban infiltrated town centres once again. But it is not the doomsday scenario being predicted two months ago. Swat is no longer a Taliban fortress and if resettlement is done with patience and care, and if civil militias weed the militants out, it will not be again. For this, credit is due to the army, which has restored the writ of the Pakistani state in Swat. What now has to happen here, as in Afghanistan, is that the provincial government has to re-emerge from its bunkers and fill the space liberated by combat.But they are not the only ones. With the exception of the US, the international community has yet to deliver on the $543m aid appeal the UN made in May. This aid is needed today even more than it was when the refugee exodus was on. Farmers who return to find their crops destroyed or shopkeepers who find their businesses looted will need food aid to survive. International donors need to keep alive to the fact that previous sweeps of this territory have all foundered at this very point.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Refugees", "United Nations", "Global development", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan: Disaster averted | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-02T11:14:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Gunmen wounded Pakistan's religious affairs minister in an attack in broad daylight today in Islamabad.Local media said Saeed Kazmi was shot in his car and his driver killed.According to Geo News, two gunmen on a motorbike fired at the vehicle before escaping. The minister is said to have been shot in the knee and was undergoing an operation.\"Gunmen sprayed bullets on the minister's car,\" said a police officer who identified himself as Qasim. He said Kazmi was in a stable condition.The minister has been critical of Islamist militants blamed for scores of attacks in Pakistan over the last two and a half years. Last month, Kazmi defended the government offensive in the Swat valley that displaced hundreds of thousands of civilians from what was once a popular tourist area.He said the government had tried its best to restore order through peaceful means, and blamed extremists for attacking civilians and disregarding a truce. A military operation, he said, had become imperative in view of the frequent suicide attacks against security forces.The army launched a campaign in April to clear the Taliban from Swat and Buner, two valleys a few hours' drive from Islamabad. Pakistan has been on high alert for retaliatory attacks by Taliban insurgents and groups linked to al-Qaida since a US missile strike killed the Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud early last month.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Al-Qaida"], "title": "Pakistan minister Saeed Kazmi injured in shooting"},{"date": "2009-08-24T09:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In decades past, the town mullahs decried the use of megaphones during the call to prayer. Now they have embraced the technology in Pakistan. In every city the loud blare of the muezzin echoes throughout the streets, although they rarely call out in unison. For centuries Muslims have bickered over prayer times, and much else.For the people of Gojra's Christian Colony, in rural Punjab, the mosque megaphones presented a more worrying proposition. \"These are infidels, killing them is permitted,\" screamed one local imam from his mosques as, two weeks ago, a Muslim mob stormed the colony on hearing a rumour, later found to be false, that a Christian had desecrated a copy of the Qur'an. About a hundred homes were burned to the grown along with nine people, most of whom were burned alive in their dwellings.Vulnerable minorities are often targeted as a result of petty grievances or property disputes, and Christian Colony residents believe the attack was sponsored by a local businessman keen to take their land. \"There shouldn't be a double standard. In our churches and homes ... so many bibles have been burned,\" a local priest said. That principle holds true for those who perished, too.The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan believes the attack was premeditated: \"Witnesses said the attackers went about destroying Christians' houses in a very professional manner and seemed to be trained for carrying out such activities.\"Members of Sipa-e-Sahaba, an outlawed Sunni extremist group that also targets Shias and Sunnis it considers apostate, are thought to be behind the attack. Heightening this violent drama, Sipa-e-Sahaba's leader Allama Ali Sher Hyderi was shot dead last week in his home town of Khairpur, northern Sindh, in what appears to be a reprisal killing.Sipa-e-Sahaba is meant to be banned. But the Pakistan Ullema Council, a powerful mainstream religious body that is also hostile to Christians, Shias and some Sunni sects, condemned Hyderi's assassination while religious groups staged protests across the nation. There have been only muted protests for the Christians of Gojra while many self-confessed champions of the marginalised like Imran Khan have remained silent.Ever since the forced \"Islamisation\" of Pakistan under former dictator Zia ul-Haq, fanatical Sunni religious groups have loudly and aggressively pushed an intolerant brand of Islam. Although they have consistently fared poorly in elections contested by major political parties or not massively rigged in their favour, they are a powerful lobby greatly feared by governments, the public and even the judiciary.It would be unfair, however, to only blame religious groups for the spreading intolerance. \"Sectarian conflict in Pakistan is the direct consequence of state policies of Islamisation and marginalisation of secular democratic forces,\" concludes an International Crisis Group report.Under Zia, school textbooks were purged of any positive reference to minorities or Muslim traditions considered too pagan. Students were taught that Pakistan was a global vanguard of Sunni Islam forever threatened by Hindus, Jews and western imperialists. Pakistan's penal code was amended to make blasphemy against Islam, including desecration of the Qur'an, a crime under strict penalties including life imprisonment to death. The Hudood Ordinance left millions of victims of rape exposed to the new crime of adultery while the testimony of non-Muslims was judged to be half the value of a Muslim.Zia apart, the Pakistan army's patronage of militancy inspired by chauvinist and xenophobic interpretation of Islam is well known. The Gojra attack occurred in the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz party heartland. Even the clerics here pledge allegiance to the Sharif brothers. Elder sibling Nawaz is the federal opposition leader and, so say the polls, the most popular leader in the country. Shabaz, the younger Sharif, is Punjab's chief minister and a noted bureaucrat.According to one source, federal intelligence agencies had warned the PML-N-controlled Punjab government that a militant group was expected to do an attack on minority communities, but it was ignored.The Christians of Gojra don't vote for the PML-N but conservative middle class Muslims do. For years the party has been a bridge between politicised mainstream religious leaders and the formal political set-up. That linkage has its origins in Zia's sweeping Islamisation project.Amid this sobering tale there are thin slivers of hope. Most of Gojra's Christians were given refuge from the mob by their Muslim neighbours. Perhaps more opportunistically, the ardently secular Muttahida Quami Movement was quick to provide relief and call for the assailants to be punished.Pressed by the adverse publicity, both the Pakistan and Punjab governments have promised justice to the victims too. Islamabad says it will hold a judicial inquiry into the incident and push for reforms to the blasphemy laws.But any significant repeal of these laws will be a daunting task. \"Any government that takes on the project of amending these exploitative laws will have to confront this political Islamist lobby,\" noted former federal information minister and leading progressive politician Sherry Rehman. The Punjab government says it will provide compensation of up to 300,000 to 500,000 rupees, but victims say this is not sufficient recompense for the loss of lives and property.There were no Pakistan flags fluttering in Gojra on Independence Day, only black ones hoisted on any structure that was lucky enough to survive the attack. \"We're still waiting for our freedom, if this was our country this would not have happened,\" one Gojra resident told a news crew.Only an active roll-back of Zia's Islamisation of the state will prevent Pakistan from continued communal disintegration.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Religion", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Intolerance is sweeping across Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-08-20T11:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Despite the recent offensive by the Pakistani army in the Swat Valley and by Nato in Helmand province, the \"Talibanisation\" of both Afghanistan and Pakistan proceeds apace. Vast parts of the Afghan south and a large region in western Pakistan are still under de facto control of Taliban militants who enforce a violent form of sharia law.Western responses oscillate between calls for a secular alternative to the religious fundamentalism of the Taliban and attempts to engage the moderate elements among them. Neither will solve the underlying religious clash between indigenous Sufi Islam and the Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi extremism. The UK and US must change strategy and adopt a policy that supports the peaceful indigenous Muslim tradition of Sufism while thwarting Saudi Arabia's promotion of the dangerous Wahhabi creed that fuels violence and sectarian tension.As Afghanistan goes to the polls this week, western political and military leaders now recognise that stability and peace in the country cannot be created by military force alone. Like the \"surge\" strategy in Iraq which reduced suicide bombings by driving a wedge between indigenous Sunnis and foreign jihadists, the US and its European allies will try to separate the Taliban from al-Qaida fighters who infiltrate Afghanistan from across the border in Pakistan. By combining \"surgical\" strikes against terrorists in the Afghan-Pakistani border region with a political strategy aimed at \"moderate\" Taliban, President Obama hopes to save the US mission from disaster.The problem is that those Taliban who would be prepared to talk have little leverage and those who have influence feel that they have little incentive to compromise, as they have gained the upper hand. Unlike many Sunnis in Iraq, most Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan have embraced the puritanical and fundamentalist Islam of the Wahhabi mullahs from Saudi Arabia who wage a ruthless war not just against western \"infidels\" but also against fellow Muslims they consider to be apostates, in particular the Sufis.Sufi Islam is not limited to the southern Pakistani province of Sindh on the border with India. It also exists elsewhere in Pakistan and has been present in Afghanistan for centuries, as exemplified by the 18th-century poet and mystic Rahman Baba whose shrine at the foot of the Khyber Pass (linking Afghanistan and Pakistan) still attracts many Sufi faithful from both sides of the border.All this changed in the 1980s when during the Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion, elements in Saudi Arabia poured in money, arms and extremist ideology. Through a network of madrasas, Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi Islam indoctrinated young Muslims with fundamentalist Puritanism, denouncing Sufi music and poetry as decadent and immoral. At Attock, not far from Rahman Baba's shrine on the Khyber Pass, stands the Haqqania madrassa, one of the most radical schools where the Taliban leader Mullah Omar was trained. Across the Pakistani border, the tolerant Sufi-minded Barelvi form of indigenous Islam has also been supplanted by the hardline Wahhabi creed.This madrassa-inspired and Saudi-financed Wahhabi Islam is destroying indigenous Islam in both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Crucially, it is imposing a radical creed that represents a distortion and perversion of true Islam. Wahhabi followers beheaded a Polish geologist in February (as revenge for Polish troops in Afghanistan) and blew up a century-old shrine dedicated to Rahman Baba in the Pakistani town of Peshawar in March.The actions of the west and its Afghan and Pakistani allies are making matters worse. By causing civilian deaths through aerial bombings, the US is driving ordinary Afghans and Pakistani into the arms of the jihadi terrorists. By declaring sharia law in Pakistan's northwestern Swat region to appease the local Taliban and by using Islamism in the ongoing conflict with India over Kashmir, Pakistan's government is emboldening the extremists and undermining Sufi Islam.What is required, first of all, is to prevent Saudi Arabia from playing a duplicitous game whereby the authorities in Riyadh help the Afghan President Karzai in his attempts to woo moderate Taliban while promoting the violent creed of Wahhabism across this volatile region. The west should call Saudi Arabia's bluff and not surrender to Riyadh's threats of ending security co-operation and information exchange on international terrorism which thrives on Saudi-exported Wahhabi ideology.The west and Muslim countries such as Jordan should also put pressure on the Pakistani authorities to confront Wahhabism by expelling Saudi hate preachers, closing the Wahhabi madrassas and establishing schools that teach the peaceful Islam of Sufism.By itself this strategy will of course not be sufficient to eradicate violence in Afghanistan and Pakistan. But without an alternative policy based on religion, this religious conflict will further escalate.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Religion", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan must confront Wahhabism | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-07-31T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the year 1946. The man did not speak English, and yet sat attentively listening to a speech by the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, with great enthusiasm. The listener shouted, clapped, and supported Jinnah's every utterance.\"Why?\" asked another man. \"Why do you support Jinnah when you don't understand what he's talking about?\" The listener responded: \"Because I know Jinnah is on my side. He speaks for me.\"So what did Jinnah create for the average Pakistani? Last week, I visited Pakistan for the first time for a national conference of students from across Pakistan. The student leaders I met, the next generation of Pakistani politicians, unlike Jinnah's listener, understood English and listened attentively to what Maajid Nawaz and I said. Surrounded by the thoughts and candid reflections of students and professors, I realised that Pakistan was in a deep identity crisis. What was Pakistan? If British Pakistanis complain about identity and belonging in Britain, as they do, life in Pakistan did not offer much solace.What was Pakistan? A so-called Islamic state? Well, that's not what Jinnah imagined and self-proclaimed Islamist parties have repeatedly lost elections. A secular state? The Urdu translation of the word \"secular\", ladiniyyat, \"non-religion\", makes the word appear anti-religious in its connotations, yet Pakistan is intensely religious. So what is Pakistan? And why was it created? Where was the sense in leaving behind the majority of Muslims in India, and breaking away to form an independent state for Muslims? And to then have it further divided from Bangladesh in 1971?Where is Pakistan heading? Punjabi, Sindhi, Pahari and similar terms resonated more with some students than did \"Pakistan\". Students I met from Balochistan condemned Pakistan and wanted to break away. In their communities, it was not \"Pakistan zindabad\", \"long live Pakistan\" that was the slogan in public meetings, but \"Pakistan murdabad\", or \"death to Pakistan\".These were sensitive issues, but despite the appearance of fragility I think it is healthy that student leaders were able to discuss these matters openly, unlike in most Arab countries. Issues relating to Kurds in Syria, for example, are matters of arrest and torture. Questioning the wisdom of creating Arab states, or the utility of their rulers, is a matter of political unrest. In contrast, the healthy and robust Pakistani media and civil society make a daily meal of undermining President Asif Ali Zardari and his government .Away from students, campuses and debates surrounding identity and terrorism, life in Pakistan was different from what I'd expected. I imagined that a nation that prides itself on possessing a nuclear bomb, would at least have the infrastructure with which to deliver clean drinking water and regular electricity supply to its people. But no. In major cities with tens of millions of inhabitants, power cuts are still a daily occurrence. For four days in Karachi last week, people had no clean drinking water. Load shedding, or electricity blackouts, also last for days. With heat levels at 45 degrees, the stench, paralysis, misery and anger run deep. How do the children and elderly cope? And yet life goes on.I saw young, tired men with donkeys and pull-carts at traffic lights besides Toyota jeeps driven by overweight men. There were elderly, hunch-backed beggars pleading for pennies from aspiring pop stars with high-end Rolex watches and rich parents. The rich in Pakistan are very rich, with mansions in Surrey and flats in Mayfair. President Zardari himself knows this first hand.I saw prostitutes enticing clients in Lahore's vast red light district, a stone's throw away from those who preach it is haram (forbidden), but failed to provide an alternative to these poor women. Iqbal Hussain, a Pakistani artist and son of and brother to industry women, raises these difficult questions in his paintings of women and their lives in this underworld, ignored publicly, yet cherished privately, by Pakistan's elite.I met elite society in Lahore, who could not believe that I could be a Muslim and a liberal. For me, there are no contradictions and yet, for them, they felt the need to declare their atheism with pride, expecting me to admire their freedom. I do. But I don't share their convictions, and lament how religious extremists have successfully chased decent people away from Islam. And how the attraction of the west has been reduced to professing atheism.I judge nations by their bookshops. When I was living in Saudi Arabia, I was always frustrated by how the narrow-minded authorities banned books and filtered my choice to dull subjects, and filled bookshops with gadgets rather than books. In contrast, Pakistan is a free country with bookshops that store everything from Lady Windermere's Fan to the Kama Sutra. That confident, boisterous attitude to books and unbridled discussions leaves Pakistan in a better position than other Muslim-majority countries.At shrines of prominent Muslim saints, especially the much-loved Bulleh Shah, I saw ordinary people visit, sing freely, dance and play centuries-old musical instruments. Where is this joy in Britain's Islamic communities? In Pakistan's shrines, I witnessed an Islam of the soul \u2013 an inner joy that allowed people to let their hair down, away from the ritual-obsessed, but vacuous clerics. Late into the night, I watched the merriment of their divine dances.And by day I was back to addressing young professionals and students on getting away from blaming India and the west for their problems. Without doubt, they appreciated a new message that Islam and secularism were not polar opposites, that the west was not a monolith, and Pakistan can find a place in the modern world free from terror and extremism. And they rightly complained about the violation of Pakistan's sovereignty by US drone attacks, the corruption of their ruling class and the dangerous emergence of dynastic politics.Unlike Jinnah's audiences, the young Pakistani students understood English and grasped what was said. But do they believe that ordinary westerners are on their side? That we in the west will respect and extend friendships to people across the world as equals, as humans? And stop launching ideological wars? I am not sure, and nor are ordinary Pakistanis. After all, Barack Obama warned Pakistan that war was on the table. We do not win hearts and minds by threatening war.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Can we befriend Pakistan? | Ed Husain"},{"date": "2009-07-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 17 July 2009Assessing the outcome of the Pakistani army's anti-Taliban offensive in Buner and Swat, a leader comment cited the International Committee of the Red Cross as one of the authorities for saying that no large-scale human rights abuses were found to have been committed. The ICRC has not made any statement about its monitoring work, which is kept confidential. Careers have been made out of predicting the imminent breakup of Pakistan. But even for the resolute, the events of March and May were hard to take. Militants appeared to strike any target in the country with impunity, be it the visiting Sri Lankan cricket team or the offices of the Inter-Services Intelligence agency in Lahore. Many, too, doubted whether the army would have the political will - let alone the military resolve - to take the Taliban on in Buner and Swat. But it did, triggering the exodus of nearly 2 million refugees in the process. Now that the first refugees are starting to return after two months of sporadic fighting, it is time to assess the outcome.The worst has not happened. The army has avoided causing heavy civilian casualties, which were a feature of previous forays such as the one in Bajaur, and concentrated its fire on the militants themselves. Some civilians have been caught in the crossfire, but according to the International Committee of the Red Cross and Human Rights Watch there have been no large-scale violations of international law. Nor are army chiefs exaggerating the effect that their campaign has had on the Taliban. Military intelligence gave a sober assessment yesterday, admitting that a sizeable militant contingent was still left in the valley, about 40% of their original estimate of up to 5,000 fighters. But fighters have been ejected from the major population centres like Mingora. The army claims it has killed 1,700 fighters, but it has yet to reach their leaders, like Baitullah Mehsud, who remains at large.This is a mixed picture, which could change if a convoy of returning refugees was bombed, or the Taliban infiltrated town centres once again. But it is not the doomsday scenario being predicted two months ago. Swat is no longer a Taliban fortress and if resettlement is done with patience and care, and if civil militias weed the militants out, it will not be again. For this, credit is due to the army, which has restored the writ of the Pakistani state in Swat. What now has to happen here, as in Afghanistan, is that the provincial government has to re-emerge from its bunkers and fill the space liberated by combat.But they are not the only ones. With the exception of the US, the international community has yet to deliver on the $543m aid appeal the UN made in May. This aid is needed today even more than it was when the refugee exodus was on. Farmers who return to find their crops destroyed or shopkeepers who find their businesses looted will need food aid to survive. International donors need to keep alive to the fact that previous sweeps of this territory have all foundered at this very point.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Refugees", "United Nations", "Global development", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan: Disaster averted | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-02T11:14:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Gunmen wounded Pakistan's religious affairs minister in an attack in broad daylight today in Islamabad.Local media said Saeed Kazmi was shot in his car and his driver killed.According to Geo News, two gunmen on a motorbike fired at the vehicle before escaping. The minister is said to have been shot in the knee and was undergoing an operation.\"Gunmen sprayed bullets on the minister's car,\" said a police officer who identified himself as Qasim. He said Kazmi was in a stable condition.The minister has been critical of Islamist militants blamed for scores of attacks in Pakistan over the last two and a half years. Last month, Kazmi defended the government offensive in the Swat valley that displaced hundreds of thousands of civilians from what was once a popular tourist area.He said the government had tried its best to restore order through peaceful means, and blamed extremists for attacking civilians and disregarding a truce. A military operation, he said, had become imperative in view of the frequent suicide attacks against security forces.The army launched a campaign in April to clear the Taliban from Swat and Buner, two valleys a few hours' drive from Islamabad. Pakistan has been on high alert for retaliatory attacks by Taliban insurgents and groups linked to al-Qaida since a US missile strike killed the Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud early last month.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Al-Qaida"], "title": "Pakistan minister Saeed Kazmi injured in shooting"},{"date": "2009-08-24T09:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In decades past, the town mullahs decried the use of megaphones during the call to prayer. Now they have embraced the technology in Pakistan. In every city the loud blare of the muezzin echoes throughout the streets, although they rarely call out in unison. For centuries Muslims have bickered over prayer times, and much else.For the people of Gojra's Christian Colony, in rural Punjab, the mosque megaphones presented a more worrying proposition. \"These are infidels, killing them is permitted,\" screamed one local imam from his mosques as, two weeks ago, a Muslim mob stormed the colony on hearing a rumour, later found to be false, that a Christian had desecrated a copy of the Qur'an. About a hundred homes were burned to the grown along with nine people, most of whom were burned alive in their dwellings.Vulnerable minorities are often targeted as a result of petty grievances or property disputes, and Christian Colony residents believe the attack was sponsored by a local businessman keen to take their land. \"There shouldn't be a double standard. In our churches and homes ... so many bibles have been burned,\" a local priest said. That principle holds true for those who perished, too.The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan believes the attack was premeditated: \"Witnesses said the attackers went about destroying Christians' houses in a very professional manner and seemed to be trained for carrying out such activities.\"Members of Sipa-e-Sahaba, an outlawed Sunni extremist group that also targets Shias and Sunnis it considers apostate, are thought to be behind the attack. Heightening this violent drama, Sipa-e-Sahaba's leader Allama Ali Sher Hyderi was shot dead last week in his home town of Khairpur, northern Sindh, in what appears to be a reprisal killing.Sipa-e-Sahaba is meant to be banned. But the Pakistan Ullema Council, a powerful mainstream religious body that is also hostile to Christians, Shias and some Sunni sects, condemned Hyderi's assassination while religious groups staged protests across the nation. There have been only muted protests for the Christians of Gojra while many self-confessed champions of the marginalised like Imran Khan have remained silent.Ever since the forced \"Islamisation\" of Pakistan under former dictator Zia ul-Haq, fanatical Sunni religious groups have loudly and aggressively pushed an intolerant brand of Islam. Although they have consistently fared poorly in elections contested by major political parties or not massively rigged in their favour, they are a powerful lobby greatly feared by governments, the public and even the judiciary.It would be unfair, however, to only blame religious groups for the spreading intolerance. \"Sectarian conflict in Pakistan is the direct consequence of state policies of Islamisation and marginalisation of secular democratic forces,\" concludes an International Crisis Group report.Under Zia, school textbooks were purged of any positive reference to minorities or Muslim traditions considered too pagan. Students were taught that Pakistan was a global vanguard of Sunni Islam forever threatened by Hindus, Jews and western imperialists. Pakistan's penal code was amended to make blasphemy against Islam, including desecration of the Qur'an, a crime under strict penalties including life imprisonment to death. The Hudood Ordinance left millions of victims of rape exposed to the new crime of adultery while the testimony of non-Muslims was judged to be half the value of a Muslim.Zia apart, the Pakistan army's patronage of militancy inspired by chauvinist and xenophobic interpretation of Islam is well known. The Gojra attack occurred in the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz party heartland. Even the clerics here pledge allegiance to the Sharif brothers. Elder sibling Nawaz is the federal opposition leader and, so say the polls, the most popular leader in the country. Shabaz, the younger Sharif, is Punjab's chief minister and a noted bureaucrat.According to one source, federal intelligence agencies had warned the PML-N-controlled Punjab government that a militant group was expected to do an attack on minority communities, but it was ignored.The Christians of Gojra don't vote for the PML-N but conservative middle class Muslims do. For years the party has been a bridge between politicised mainstream religious leaders and the formal political set-up. That linkage has its origins in Zia's sweeping Islamisation project.Amid this sobering tale there are thin slivers of hope. Most of Gojra's Christians were given refuge from the mob by their Muslim neighbours. Perhaps more opportunistically, the ardently secular Muttahida Quami Movement was quick to provide relief and call for the assailants to be punished.Pressed by the adverse publicity, both the Pakistan and Punjab governments have promised justice to the victims too. Islamabad says it will hold a judicial inquiry into the incident and push for reforms to the blasphemy laws.But any significant repeal of these laws will be a daunting task. \"Any government that takes on the project of amending these exploitative laws will have to confront this political Islamist lobby,\" noted former federal information minister and leading progressive politician Sherry Rehman. The Punjab government says it will provide compensation of up to 300,000 to 500,000 rupees, but victims say this is not sufficient recompense for the loss of lives and property.There were no Pakistan flags fluttering in Gojra on Independence Day, only black ones hoisted on any structure that was lucky enough to survive the attack. \"We're still waiting for our freedom, if this was our country this would not have happened,\" one Gojra resident told a news crew.Only an active roll-back of Zia's Islamisation of the state will prevent Pakistan from continued communal disintegration.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Religion", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Intolerance is sweeping across Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-09-11T14:19:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistan army has captured the Swat Taliban spokesman, Muslim Khan \u2013 the first arrest of an insurgent leader since the start of a major military offensive in the picturesque northern valley four months ago.The army spokesman, Major General Athar Abbas, said that Khan and another commander, Mahmood Khan, had been seized. Both had \u00a373,000 bounties on their heads. Three lesser Taliban leaders were also caught.The arrests took place in the suburbs of Mingora, the main town in Swat, the army said on its website. Alongside the announcement was a photo of a glum-looking Khan, his trademark black turban removed to reveal silver hair.The announcement came shortly after the News reported that Khan had been engaged in secret peace talks with the government in Islamabad. The interior minister, Rehman Malik, denied the claims.\"There will be no negotiations with the terrorists,\" he told reporters. \"They have no other option. They either get killed or arrested.\"The timing of the announcement also elicited speculation that it was intended to coincide with the anniversary of the September 11 attacks in America. Officials in Obama's administration have praised Pakistan for its Swat drive.However, Khan's capture will have a more immediate impact in the valley itself, where military and provincial authorities are keen to combat fears of a Taliban comeback. The army has managed to clear most of Swat of gunmen since fighting erupted in May, and many of the 1 million people who fled their homes have now returned.Nevertheless, Pockets of violent resistance persist along the western bank of the river Swat, and the atmosphere in the valley remains anxious. Human rights groups have accused the army of summarily executing suspected militants after bloodied corpses were dumped in the streets.On 30 August, a suicide bomber killed at least 15 police recruits at a training centre in Mingora, stirring fears of a new campaign of guerrilla violence.In recent months, some local residents have become bolder in contributing to the defence effort. Up to 8,000 men have joined local lashkars, or village militias, to keep the Taliban at bay, Dawn newspaper reported this week. One such lashkar killed three militants in a confrontation outside a mosque last week.Tribal elders expect the numbers enrolled in lashkars to double by November.But the success of the Taliban leadership in evading capture has caused sceptical residents to doubt whether the army is serious about eliminating the insurgency.Persistent reports of the demise of Shah Doran, one of the most notorious commanders, were never confirmed.That scepticism may now cease with the arrest of Khan. As spokesman and a senior commander in his own right, he is close to the Taliban leader Mullah Fazlullah.In an interview with the Guardian last April, Khan explained his vision of forging a global Islamic caliphate. \"We want to make a unity of Muslims states, just like the United States of America,\" he said, speaking as he juggled phone calls at the Taliban headquarters on the banks of the river Swat.A burly man in a silky, jet-black turban, Khan spoke broken English with an American twang \u2013 he worked in Boston as a house-painter and a petrol-pump attendant in the late 1990s.He defended a group of Taliban fighters for lashing a teenage girl in punishment, a shaky video of which had shocked Pakistanis and would prove instrumental in galvanising public opinion against the militants.The envisioned Islamic caliphate would have no room for elections, he added. \"Democracy is a system of European countries. It is not good for Muslims,\" he said.", "tags": ["Taliban", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan army captures Taliban leader in Swat"},{"date": "2009-08-20T11:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Despite the recent offensive by the Pakistani army in the Swat Valley and by Nato in Helmand province, the \"Talibanisation\" of both Afghanistan and Pakistan proceeds apace. Vast parts of the Afghan south and a large region in western Pakistan are still under de facto control of Taliban militants who enforce a violent form of sharia law.Western responses oscillate between calls for a secular alternative to the religious fundamentalism of the Taliban and attempts to engage the moderate elements among them. Neither will solve the underlying religious clash between indigenous Sufi Islam and the Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi extremism. The UK and US must change strategy and adopt a policy that supports the peaceful indigenous Muslim tradition of Sufism while thwarting Saudi Arabia's promotion of the dangerous Wahhabi creed that fuels violence and sectarian tension.As Afghanistan goes to the polls this week, western political and military leaders now recognise that stability and peace in the country cannot be created by military force alone. Like the \"surge\" strategy in Iraq which reduced suicide bombings by driving a wedge between indigenous Sunnis and foreign jihadists, the US and its European allies will try to separate the Taliban from al-Qaida fighters who infiltrate Afghanistan from across the border in Pakistan. By combining \"surgical\" strikes against terrorists in the Afghan-Pakistani border region with a political strategy aimed at \"moderate\" Taliban, President Obama hopes to save the US mission from disaster.The problem is that those Taliban who would be prepared to talk have little leverage and those who have influence feel that they have little incentive to compromise, as they have gained the upper hand. Unlike many Sunnis in Iraq, most Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan have embraced the puritanical and fundamentalist Islam of the Wahhabi mullahs from Saudi Arabia who wage a ruthless war not just against western \"infidels\" but also against fellow Muslims they consider to be apostates, in particular the Sufis.Sufi Islam is not limited to the southern Pakistani province of Sindh on the border with India. It also exists elsewhere in Pakistan and has been present in Afghanistan for centuries, as exemplified by the 18th-century poet and mystic Rahman Baba whose shrine at the foot of the Khyber Pass (linking Afghanistan and Pakistan) still attracts many Sufi faithful from both sides of the border.All this changed in the 1980s when during the Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion, elements in Saudi Arabia poured in money, arms and extremist ideology. Through a network of madrasas, Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi Islam indoctrinated young Muslims with fundamentalist Puritanism, denouncing Sufi music and poetry as decadent and immoral. At Attock, not far from Rahman Baba's shrine on the Khyber Pass, stands the Haqqania madrassa, one of the most radical schools where the Taliban leader Mullah Omar was trained. Across the Pakistani border, the tolerant Sufi-minded Barelvi form of indigenous Islam has also been supplanted by the hardline Wahhabi creed.This madrassa-inspired and Saudi-financed Wahhabi Islam is destroying indigenous Islam in both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Crucially, it is imposing a radical creed that represents a distortion and perversion of true Islam. Wahhabi followers beheaded a Polish geologist in February (as revenge for Polish troops in Afghanistan) and blew up a century-old shrine dedicated to Rahman Baba in the Pakistani town of Peshawar in March.The actions of the west and its Afghan and Pakistani allies are making matters worse. By causing civilian deaths through aerial bombings, the US is driving ordinary Afghans and Pakistani into the arms of the jihadi terrorists. By declaring sharia law in Pakistan's northwestern Swat region to appease the local Taliban and by using Islamism in the ongoing conflict with India over Kashmir, Pakistan's government is emboldening the extremists and undermining Sufi Islam.What is required, first of all, is to prevent Saudi Arabia from playing a duplicitous game whereby the authorities in Riyadh help the Afghan President Karzai in his attempts to woo moderate Taliban while promoting the violent creed of Wahhabism across this volatile region. The west should call Saudi Arabia's bluff and not surrender to Riyadh's threats of ending security co-operation and information exchange on international terrorism which thrives on Saudi-exported Wahhabi ideology.The west and Muslim countries such as Jordan should also put pressure on the Pakistani authorities to confront Wahhabism by expelling Saudi hate preachers, closing the Wahhabi madrassas and establishing schools that teach the peaceful Islam of Sufism.By itself this strategy will of course not be sufficient to eradicate violence in Afghanistan and Pakistan. But without an alternative policy based on religion, this religious conflict will further escalate.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Religion", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan must confront Wahhabism | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-07-31T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the year 1946. The man did not speak English, and yet sat attentively listening to a speech by the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, with great enthusiasm. The listener shouted, clapped, and supported Jinnah's every utterance.\"Why?\" asked another man. \"Why do you support Jinnah when you don't understand what he's talking about?\" The listener responded: \"Because I know Jinnah is on my side. He speaks for me.\"So what did Jinnah create for the average Pakistani? Last week, I visited Pakistan for the first time for a national conference of students from across Pakistan. The student leaders I met, the next generation of Pakistani politicians, unlike Jinnah's listener, understood English and listened attentively to what Maajid Nawaz and I said. Surrounded by the thoughts and candid reflections of students and professors, I realised that Pakistan was in a deep identity crisis. What was Pakistan? If British Pakistanis complain about identity and belonging in Britain, as they do, life in Pakistan did not offer much solace.What was Pakistan? A so-called Islamic state? Well, that's not what Jinnah imagined and self-proclaimed Islamist parties have repeatedly lost elections. A secular state? The Urdu translation of the word \"secular\", ladiniyyat, \"non-religion\", makes the word appear anti-religious in its connotations, yet Pakistan is intensely religious. So what is Pakistan? And why was it created? Where was the sense in leaving behind the majority of Muslims in India, and breaking away to form an independent state for Muslims? And to then have it further divided from Bangladesh in 1971?Where is Pakistan heading? Punjabi, Sindhi, Pahari and similar terms resonated more with some students than did \"Pakistan\". Students I met from Balochistan condemned Pakistan and wanted to break away. In their communities, it was not \"Pakistan zindabad\", \"long live Pakistan\" that was the slogan in public meetings, but \"Pakistan murdabad\", or \"death to Pakistan\".These were sensitive issues, but despite the appearance of fragility I think it is healthy that student leaders were able to discuss these matters openly, unlike in most Arab countries. Issues relating to Kurds in Syria, for example, are matters of arrest and torture. Questioning the wisdom of creating Arab states, or the utility of their rulers, is a matter of political unrest. In contrast, the healthy and robust Pakistani media and civil society make a daily meal of undermining President Asif Ali Zardari and his government .Away from students, campuses and debates surrounding identity and terrorism, life in Pakistan was different from what I'd expected. I imagined that a nation that prides itself on possessing a nuclear bomb, would at least have the infrastructure with which to deliver clean drinking water and regular electricity supply to its people. But no. In major cities with tens of millions of inhabitants, power cuts are still a daily occurrence. For four days in Karachi last week, people had no clean drinking water. Load shedding, or electricity blackouts, also last for days. With heat levels at 45 degrees, the stench, paralysis, misery and anger run deep. How do the children and elderly cope? And yet life goes on.I saw young, tired men with donkeys and pull-carts at traffic lights besides Toyota jeeps driven by overweight men. There were elderly, hunch-backed beggars pleading for pennies from aspiring pop stars with high-end Rolex watches and rich parents. The rich in Pakistan are very rich, with mansions in Surrey and flats in Mayfair. President Zardari himself knows this first hand.I saw prostitutes enticing clients in Lahore's vast red light district, a stone's throw away from those who preach it is haram (forbidden), but failed to provide an alternative to these poor women. Iqbal Hussain, a Pakistani artist and son of and brother to industry women, raises these difficult questions in his paintings of women and their lives in this underworld, ignored publicly, yet cherished privately, by Pakistan's elite.I met elite society in Lahore, who could not believe that I could be a Muslim and a liberal. For me, there are no contradictions and yet, for them, they felt the need to declare their atheism with pride, expecting me to admire their freedom. I do. But I don't share their convictions, and lament how religious extremists have successfully chased decent people away from Islam. And how the attraction of the west has been reduced to professing atheism.I judge nations by their bookshops. When I was living in Saudi Arabia, I was always frustrated by how the narrow-minded authorities banned books and filtered my choice to dull subjects, and filled bookshops with gadgets rather than books. In contrast, Pakistan is a free country with bookshops that store everything from Lady Windermere's Fan to the Kama Sutra. That confident, boisterous attitude to books and unbridled discussions leaves Pakistan in a better position than other Muslim-majority countries.At shrines of prominent Muslim saints, especially the much-loved Bulleh Shah, I saw ordinary people visit, sing freely, dance and play centuries-old musical instruments. Where is this joy in Britain's Islamic communities? In Pakistan's shrines, I witnessed an Islam of the soul \u2013 an inner joy that allowed people to let their hair down, away from the ritual-obsessed, but vacuous clerics. Late into the night, I watched the merriment of their divine dances.And by day I was back to addressing young professionals and students on getting away from blaming India and the west for their problems. Without doubt, they appreciated a new message that Islam and secularism were not polar opposites, that the west was not a monolith, and Pakistan can find a place in the modern world free from terror and extremism. And they rightly complained about the violation of Pakistan's sovereignty by US drone attacks, the corruption of their ruling class and the dangerous emergence of dynastic politics.Unlike Jinnah's audiences, the young Pakistani students understood English and grasped what was said. But do they believe that ordinary westerners are on their side? That we in the west will respect and extend friendships to people across the world as equals, as humans? And stop launching ideological wars? I am not sure, and nor are ordinary Pakistanis. After all, Barack Obama warned Pakistan that war was on the table. We do not win hearts and minds by threatening war.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Can we befriend Pakistan? | Ed Husain"},{"date": "2009-07-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 17 July 2009Assessing the outcome of the Pakistani army's anti-Taliban offensive in Buner and Swat, a leader comment cited the International Committee of the Red Cross as one of the authorities for saying that no large-scale human rights abuses were found to have been committed. The ICRC has not made any statement about its monitoring work, which is kept confidential. Careers have been made out of predicting the imminent breakup of Pakistan. But even for the resolute, the events of March and May were hard to take. Militants appeared to strike any target in the country with impunity, be it the visiting Sri Lankan cricket team or the offices of the Inter-Services Intelligence agency in Lahore. Many, too, doubted whether the army would have the political will - let alone the military resolve - to take the Taliban on in Buner and Swat. But it did, triggering the exodus of nearly 2 million refugees in the process. Now that the first refugees are starting to return after two months of sporadic fighting, it is time to assess the outcome.The worst has not happened. The army has avoided causing heavy civilian casualties, which were a feature of previous forays such as the one in Bajaur, and concentrated its fire on the militants themselves. Some civilians have been caught in the crossfire, but according to the International Committee of the Red Cross and Human Rights Watch there have been no large-scale violations of international law. Nor are army chiefs exaggerating the effect that their campaign has had on the Taliban. Military intelligence gave a sober assessment yesterday, admitting that a sizeable militant contingent was still left in the valley, about 40% of their original estimate of up to 5,000 fighters. But fighters have been ejected from the major population centres like Mingora. The army claims it has killed 1,700 fighters, but it has yet to reach their leaders, like Baitullah Mehsud, who remains at large.This is a mixed picture, which could change if a convoy of returning refugees was bombed, or the Taliban infiltrated town centres once again. But it is not the doomsday scenario being predicted two months ago. Swat is no longer a Taliban fortress and if resettlement is done with patience and care, and if civil militias weed the militants out, it will not be again. For this, credit is due to the army, which has restored the writ of the Pakistani state in Swat. What now has to happen here, as in Afghanistan, is that the provincial government has to re-emerge from its bunkers and fill the space liberated by combat.But they are not the only ones. With the exception of the US, the international community has yet to deliver on the $543m aid appeal the UN made in May. This aid is needed today even more than it was when the refugee exodus was on. Farmers who return to find their crops destroyed or shopkeepers who find their businesses looted will need food aid to survive. International donors need to keep alive to the fact that previous sweeps of this territory have all foundered at this very point.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Refugees", "United Nations", "Global development", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan: Disaster averted | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-02T11:14:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Gunmen wounded Pakistan's religious affairs minister in an attack in broad daylight today in Islamabad.Local media said Saeed Kazmi was shot in his car and his driver killed.According to Geo News, two gunmen on a motorbike fired at the vehicle before escaping. The minister is said to have been shot in the knee and was undergoing an operation.\"Gunmen sprayed bullets on the minister's car,\" said a police officer who identified himself as Qasim. He said Kazmi was in a stable condition.The minister has been critical of Islamist militants blamed for scores of attacks in Pakistan over the last two and a half years. Last month, Kazmi defended the government offensive in the Swat valley that displaced hundreds of thousands of civilians from what was once a popular tourist area.He said the government had tried its best to restore order through peaceful means, and blamed extremists for attacking civilians and disregarding a truce. A military operation, he said, had become imperative in view of the frequent suicide attacks against security forces.The army launched a campaign in April to clear the Taliban from Swat and Buner, two valleys a few hours' drive from Islamabad. Pakistan has been on high alert for retaliatory attacks by Taliban insurgents and groups linked to al-Qaida since a US missile strike killed the Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud early last month.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Al-Qaida"], "title": "Pakistan minister Saeed Kazmi injured in shooting"},{"date": "2009-08-24T09:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In decades past, the town mullahs decried the use of megaphones during the call to prayer. Now they have embraced the technology in Pakistan. In every city the loud blare of the muezzin echoes throughout the streets, although they rarely call out in unison. For centuries Muslims have bickered over prayer times, and much else.For the people of Gojra's Christian Colony, in rural Punjab, the mosque megaphones presented a more worrying proposition. \"These are infidels, killing them is permitted,\" screamed one local imam from his mosques as, two weeks ago, a Muslim mob stormed the colony on hearing a rumour, later found to be false, that a Christian had desecrated a copy of the Qur'an. About a hundred homes were burned to the grown along with nine people, most of whom were burned alive in their dwellings.Vulnerable minorities are often targeted as a result of petty grievances or property disputes, and Christian Colony residents believe the attack was sponsored by a local businessman keen to take their land. \"There shouldn't be a double standard. In our churches and homes ... so many bibles have been burned,\" a local priest said. That principle holds true for those who perished, too.The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan believes the attack was premeditated: \"Witnesses said the attackers went about destroying Christians' houses in a very professional manner and seemed to be trained for carrying out such activities.\"Members of Sipa-e-Sahaba, an outlawed Sunni extremist group that also targets Shias and Sunnis it considers apostate, are thought to be behind the attack. Heightening this violent drama, Sipa-e-Sahaba's leader Allama Ali Sher Hyderi was shot dead last week in his home town of Khairpur, northern Sindh, in what appears to be a reprisal killing.Sipa-e-Sahaba is meant to be banned. But the Pakistan Ullema Council, a powerful mainstream religious body that is also hostile to Christians, Shias and some Sunni sects, condemned Hyderi's assassination while religious groups staged protests across the nation. There have been only muted protests for the Christians of Gojra while many self-confessed champions of the marginalised like Imran Khan have remained silent.Ever since the forced \"Islamisation\" of Pakistan under former dictator Zia ul-Haq, fanatical Sunni religious groups have loudly and aggressively pushed an intolerant brand of Islam. Although they have consistently fared poorly in elections contested by major political parties or not massively rigged in their favour, they are a powerful lobby greatly feared by governments, the public and even the judiciary.It would be unfair, however, to only blame religious groups for the spreading intolerance. \"Sectarian conflict in Pakistan is the direct consequence of state policies of Islamisation and marginalisation of secular democratic forces,\" concludes an International Crisis Group report.Under Zia, school textbooks were purged of any positive reference to minorities or Muslim traditions considered too pagan. Students were taught that Pakistan was a global vanguard of Sunni Islam forever threatened by Hindus, Jews and western imperialists. Pakistan's penal code was amended to make blasphemy against Islam, including desecration of the Qur'an, a crime under strict penalties including life imprisonment to death. The Hudood Ordinance left millions of victims of rape exposed to the new crime of adultery while the testimony of non-Muslims was judged to be half the value of a Muslim.Zia apart, the Pakistan army's patronage of militancy inspired by chauvinist and xenophobic interpretation of Islam is well known. The Gojra attack occurred in the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz party heartland. Even the clerics here pledge allegiance to the Sharif brothers. Elder sibling Nawaz is the federal opposition leader and, so say the polls, the most popular leader in the country. Shabaz, the younger Sharif, is Punjab's chief minister and a noted bureaucrat.According to one source, federal intelligence agencies had warned the PML-N-controlled Punjab government that a militant group was expected to do an attack on minority communities, but it was ignored.The Christians of Gojra don't vote for the PML-N but conservative middle class Muslims do. For years the party has been a bridge between politicised mainstream religious leaders and the formal political set-up. That linkage has its origins in Zia's sweeping Islamisation project.Amid this sobering tale there are thin slivers of hope. Most of Gojra's Christians were given refuge from the mob by their Muslim neighbours. Perhaps more opportunistically, the ardently secular Muttahida Quami Movement was quick to provide relief and call for the assailants to be punished.Pressed by the adverse publicity, both the Pakistan and Punjab governments have promised justice to the victims too. Islamabad says it will hold a judicial inquiry into the incident and push for reforms to the blasphemy laws.But any significant repeal of these laws will be a daunting task. \"Any government that takes on the project of amending these exploitative laws will have to confront this political Islamist lobby,\" noted former federal information minister and leading progressive politician Sherry Rehman. The Punjab government says it will provide compensation of up to 300,000 to 500,000 rupees, but victims say this is not sufficient recompense for the loss of lives and property.There were no Pakistan flags fluttering in Gojra on Independence Day, only black ones hoisted on any structure that was lucky enough to survive the attack. \"We're still waiting for our freedom, if this was our country this would not have happened,\" one Gojra resident told a news crew.Only an active roll-back of Zia's Islamisation of the state will prevent Pakistan from continued communal disintegration.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Religion", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Intolerance is sweeping across Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-09-11T14:19:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistan army has captured the Swat Taliban spokesman, Muslim Khan \u2013 the first arrest of an insurgent leader since the start of a major military offensive in the picturesque northern valley four months ago.The army spokesman, Major General Athar Abbas, said that Khan and another commander, Mahmood Khan, had been seized. Both had \u00a373,000 bounties on their heads. Three lesser Taliban leaders were also caught.The arrests took place in the suburbs of Mingora, the main town in Swat, the army said on its website. Alongside the announcement was a photo of a glum-looking Khan, his trademark black turban removed to reveal silver hair.The announcement came shortly after the News reported that Khan had been engaged in secret peace talks with the government in Islamabad. The interior minister, Rehman Malik, denied the claims.\"There will be no negotiations with the terrorists,\" he told reporters. \"They have no other option. They either get killed or arrested.\"The timing of the announcement also elicited speculation that it was intended to coincide with the anniversary of the September 11 attacks in America. Officials in Obama's administration have praised Pakistan for its Swat drive.However, Khan's capture will have a more immediate impact in the valley itself, where military and provincial authorities are keen to combat fears of a Taliban comeback. The army has managed to clear most of Swat of gunmen since fighting erupted in May, and many of the 1 million people who fled their homes have now returned.Nevertheless, Pockets of violent resistance persist along the western bank of the river Swat, and the atmosphere in the valley remains anxious. Human rights groups have accused the army of summarily executing suspected militants after bloodied corpses were dumped in the streets.On 30 August, a suicide bomber killed at least 15 police recruits at a training centre in Mingora, stirring fears of a new campaign of guerrilla violence.In recent months, some local residents have become bolder in contributing to the defence effort. Up to 8,000 men have joined local lashkars, or village militias, to keep the Taliban at bay, Dawn newspaper reported this week. One such lashkar killed three militants in a confrontation outside a mosque last week.Tribal elders expect the numbers enrolled in lashkars to double by November.But the success of the Taliban leadership in evading capture has caused sceptical residents to doubt whether the army is serious about eliminating the insurgency.Persistent reports of the demise of Shah Doran, one of the most notorious commanders, were never confirmed.That scepticism may now cease with the arrest of Khan. As spokesman and a senior commander in his own right, he is close to the Taliban leader Mullah Fazlullah.In an interview with the Guardian last April, Khan explained his vision of forging a global Islamic caliphate. \"We want to make a unity of Muslims states, just like the United States of America,\" he said, speaking as he juggled phone calls at the Taliban headquarters on the banks of the river Swat.A burly man in a silky, jet-black turban, Khan spoke broken English with an American twang \u2013 he worked in Boston as a house-painter and a petrol-pump attendant in the late 1990s.He defended a group of Taliban fighters for lashing a teenage girl in punishment, a shaky video of which had shocked Pakistanis and would prove instrumental in galvanising public opinion against the militants.The envisioned Islamic caliphate would have no room for elections, he added. \"Democracy is a system of European countries. It is not good for Muslims,\" he said.", "tags": ["Taliban", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan army captures Taliban leader in Swat"},{"date": "2009-08-30T09:48:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "At least 14 police recruits were killed by a suicide bomber in Pakistan's Swat valley today \u2013 the deadliest attack since the army regained control of the area from the Taliban.The blast, which happened in the yard of the main police station in Mingora, the major town in the north-west valley, came a day after the army said it had destroyed a nearby training camp for suicide bombers.Members of a new community police force set up to patrol the region were being trained when the attacker detonated his explosives, the provincial information minister, Mian Iftikhar Hussain, told the Geo TV channel.Footage showed officers removing bodies from outside the police station, which has been bombed twice in recent months.The bodies of at least 14 police volunteers were brought to a local hospital.Eight recruits injured in the explosion were receiving treatment, Ikram Khan, a hospital official, told the Associated Press.Idrees Khan, the local police chief, said at least 20 people had been wounded.He denied reports that the attacker was in uniform and could have been one of the police volunteers.\"No, we don't have any such report \u2013 but yes, a suicide bomber sneaked into the training for recruits,\" he said.He blamed the attack on the decision to relax a daily curfew in the area for the holy month of Ramadan, saying security would be stepped up.The Pakistani prime minister, Yusuf Raza Gilani, said: \"We will not allow the enemies of the country to succeed in their evil designs.\"Police blocked roads around the area soon after the blast, ordering nearby residents to stay inside.Pakistani army officials said forces were restoring security in Swat and the surrounding areas after a three-month military offensive took the valley back from Taliban control, but suicide attacks and fighting have continued.Five soldiers were killed in a suicide attack at a security checkpoint in the Swat valley on 15 August.Last month, the military declared Mingora and the surrounding areas to have been cleared of militants, except for small pockets of resistance.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Police recruits killed in Pakistan suicide bombing"},{"date": "2009-08-20T11:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Despite the recent offensive by the Pakistani army in the Swat Valley and by Nato in Helmand province, the \"Talibanisation\" of both Afghanistan and Pakistan proceeds apace. Vast parts of the Afghan south and a large region in western Pakistan are still under de facto control of Taliban militants who enforce a violent form of sharia law.Western responses oscillate between calls for a secular alternative to the religious fundamentalism of the Taliban and attempts to engage the moderate elements among them. Neither will solve the underlying religious clash between indigenous Sufi Islam and the Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi extremism. The UK and US must change strategy and adopt a policy that supports the peaceful indigenous Muslim tradition of Sufism while thwarting Saudi Arabia's promotion of the dangerous Wahhabi creed that fuels violence and sectarian tension.As Afghanistan goes to the polls this week, western political and military leaders now recognise that stability and peace in the country cannot be created by military force alone. Like the \"surge\" strategy in Iraq which reduced suicide bombings by driving a wedge between indigenous Sunnis and foreign jihadists, the US and its European allies will try to separate the Taliban from al-Qaida fighters who infiltrate Afghanistan from across the border in Pakistan. By combining \"surgical\" strikes against terrorists in the Afghan-Pakistani border region with a political strategy aimed at \"moderate\" Taliban, President Obama hopes to save the US mission from disaster.The problem is that those Taliban who would be prepared to talk have little leverage and those who have influence feel that they have little incentive to compromise, as they have gained the upper hand. Unlike many Sunnis in Iraq, most Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan have embraced the puritanical and fundamentalist Islam of the Wahhabi mullahs from Saudi Arabia who wage a ruthless war not just against western \"infidels\" but also against fellow Muslims they consider to be apostates, in particular the Sufis.Sufi Islam is not limited to the southern Pakistani province of Sindh on the border with India. It also exists elsewhere in Pakistan and has been present in Afghanistan for centuries, as exemplified by the 18th-century poet and mystic Rahman Baba whose shrine at the foot of the Khyber Pass (linking Afghanistan and Pakistan) still attracts many Sufi faithful from both sides of the border.All this changed in the 1980s when during the Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion, elements in Saudi Arabia poured in money, arms and extremist ideology. Through a network of madrasas, Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi Islam indoctrinated young Muslims with fundamentalist Puritanism, denouncing Sufi music and poetry as decadent and immoral. At Attock, not far from Rahman Baba's shrine on the Khyber Pass, stands the Haqqania madrassa, one of the most radical schools where the Taliban leader Mullah Omar was trained. Across the Pakistani border, the tolerant Sufi-minded Barelvi form of indigenous Islam has also been supplanted by the hardline Wahhabi creed.This madrassa-inspired and Saudi-financed Wahhabi Islam is destroying indigenous Islam in both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Crucially, it is imposing a radical creed that represents a distortion and perversion of true Islam. Wahhabi followers beheaded a Polish geologist in February (as revenge for Polish troops in Afghanistan) and blew up a century-old shrine dedicated to Rahman Baba in the Pakistani town of Peshawar in March.The actions of the west and its Afghan and Pakistani allies are making matters worse. By causing civilian deaths through aerial bombings, the US is driving ordinary Afghans and Pakistani into the arms of the jihadi terrorists. By declaring sharia law in Pakistan's northwestern Swat region to appease the local Taliban and by using Islamism in the ongoing conflict with India over Kashmir, Pakistan's government is emboldening the extremists and undermining Sufi Islam.What is required, first of all, is to prevent Saudi Arabia from playing a duplicitous game whereby the authorities in Riyadh help the Afghan President Karzai in his attempts to woo moderate Taliban while promoting the violent creed of Wahhabism across this volatile region. The west should call Saudi Arabia's bluff and not surrender to Riyadh's threats of ending security co-operation and information exchange on international terrorism which thrives on Saudi-exported Wahhabi ideology.The west and Muslim countries such as Jordan should also put pressure on the Pakistani authorities to confront Wahhabism by expelling Saudi hate preachers, closing the Wahhabi madrassas and establishing schools that teach the peaceful Islam of Sufism.By itself this strategy will of course not be sufficient to eradicate violence in Afghanistan and Pakistan. But without an alternative policy based on religion, this religious conflict will further escalate.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Religion", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan must confront Wahhabism | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-07-31T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the year 1946. The man did not speak English, and yet sat attentively listening to a speech by the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, with great enthusiasm. The listener shouted, clapped, and supported Jinnah's every utterance.\"Why?\" asked another man. \"Why do you support Jinnah when you don't understand what he's talking about?\" The listener responded: \"Because I know Jinnah is on my side. He speaks for me.\"So what did Jinnah create for the average Pakistani? Last week, I visited Pakistan for the first time for a national conference of students from across Pakistan. The student leaders I met, the next generation of Pakistani politicians, unlike Jinnah's listener, understood English and listened attentively to what Maajid Nawaz and I said. Surrounded by the thoughts and candid reflections of students and professors, I realised that Pakistan was in a deep identity crisis. What was Pakistan? If British Pakistanis complain about identity and belonging in Britain, as they do, life in Pakistan did not offer much solace.What was Pakistan? A so-called Islamic state? Well, that's not what Jinnah imagined and self-proclaimed Islamist parties have repeatedly lost elections. A secular state? The Urdu translation of the word \"secular\", ladiniyyat, \"non-religion\", makes the word appear anti-religious in its connotations, yet Pakistan is intensely religious. So what is Pakistan? And why was it created? Where was the sense in leaving behind the majority of Muslims in India, and breaking away to form an independent state for Muslims? And to then have it further divided from Bangladesh in 1971?Where is Pakistan heading? Punjabi, Sindhi, Pahari and similar terms resonated more with some students than did \"Pakistan\". Students I met from Balochistan condemned Pakistan and wanted to break away. In their communities, it was not \"Pakistan zindabad\", \"long live Pakistan\" that was the slogan in public meetings, but \"Pakistan murdabad\", or \"death to Pakistan\".These were sensitive issues, but despite the appearance of fragility I think it is healthy that student leaders were able to discuss these matters openly, unlike in most Arab countries. Issues relating to Kurds in Syria, for example, are matters of arrest and torture. Questioning the wisdom of creating Arab states, or the utility of their rulers, is a matter of political unrest. In contrast, the healthy and robust Pakistani media and civil society make a daily meal of undermining President Asif Ali Zardari and his government .Away from students, campuses and debates surrounding identity and terrorism, life in Pakistan was different from what I'd expected. I imagined that a nation that prides itself on possessing a nuclear bomb, would at least have the infrastructure with which to deliver clean drinking water and regular electricity supply to its people. But no. In major cities with tens of millions of inhabitants, power cuts are still a daily occurrence. For four days in Karachi last week, people had no clean drinking water. Load shedding, or electricity blackouts, also last for days. With heat levels at 45 degrees, the stench, paralysis, misery and anger run deep. How do the children and elderly cope? And yet life goes on.I saw young, tired men with donkeys and pull-carts at traffic lights besides Toyota jeeps driven by overweight men. There were elderly, hunch-backed beggars pleading for pennies from aspiring pop stars with high-end Rolex watches and rich parents. The rich in Pakistan are very rich, with mansions in Surrey and flats in Mayfair. President Zardari himself knows this first hand.I saw prostitutes enticing clients in Lahore's vast red light district, a stone's throw away from those who preach it is haram (forbidden), but failed to provide an alternative to these poor women. Iqbal Hussain, a Pakistani artist and son of and brother to industry women, raises these difficult questions in his paintings of women and their lives in this underworld, ignored publicly, yet cherished privately, by Pakistan's elite.I met elite society in Lahore, who could not believe that I could be a Muslim and a liberal. For me, there are no contradictions and yet, for them, they felt the need to declare their atheism with pride, expecting me to admire their freedom. I do. But I don't share their convictions, and lament how religious extremists have successfully chased decent people away from Islam. And how the attraction of the west has been reduced to professing atheism.I judge nations by their bookshops. When I was living in Saudi Arabia, I was always frustrated by how the narrow-minded authorities banned books and filtered my choice to dull subjects, and filled bookshops with gadgets rather than books. In contrast, Pakistan is a free country with bookshops that store everything from Lady Windermere's Fan to the Kama Sutra. That confident, boisterous attitude to books and unbridled discussions leaves Pakistan in a better position than other Muslim-majority countries.At shrines of prominent Muslim saints, especially the much-loved Bulleh Shah, I saw ordinary people visit, sing freely, dance and play centuries-old musical instruments. Where is this joy in Britain's Islamic communities? In Pakistan's shrines, I witnessed an Islam of the soul \u2013 an inner joy that allowed people to let their hair down, away from the ritual-obsessed, but vacuous clerics. Late into the night, I watched the merriment of their divine dances.And by day I was back to addressing young professionals and students on getting away from blaming India and the west for their problems. Without doubt, they appreciated a new message that Islam and secularism were not polar opposites, that the west was not a monolith, and Pakistan can find a place in the modern world free from terror and extremism. And they rightly complained about the violation of Pakistan's sovereignty by US drone attacks, the corruption of their ruling class and the dangerous emergence of dynastic politics.Unlike Jinnah's audiences, the young Pakistani students understood English and grasped what was said. But do they believe that ordinary westerners are on their side? That we in the west will respect and extend friendships to people across the world as equals, as humans? And stop launching ideological wars? I am not sure, and nor are ordinary Pakistanis. After all, Barack Obama warned Pakistan that war was on the table. We do not win hearts and minds by threatening war.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Can we befriend Pakistan? | Ed Husain"},{"date": "2009-07-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 17 July 2009Assessing the outcome of the Pakistani army's anti-Taliban offensive in Buner and Swat, a leader comment cited the International Committee of the Red Cross as one of the authorities for saying that no large-scale human rights abuses were found to have been committed. The ICRC has not made any statement about its monitoring work, which is kept confidential. Careers have been made out of predicting the imminent breakup of Pakistan. But even for the resolute, the events of March and May were hard to take. Militants appeared to strike any target in the country with impunity, be it the visiting Sri Lankan cricket team or the offices of the Inter-Services Intelligence agency in Lahore. Many, too, doubted whether the army would have the political will - let alone the military resolve - to take the Taliban on in Buner and Swat. But it did, triggering the exodus of nearly 2 million refugees in the process. Now that the first refugees are starting to return after two months of sporadic fighting, it is time to assess the outcome.The worst has not happened. The army has avoided causing heavy civilian casualties, which were a feature of previous forays such as the one in Bajaur, and concentrated its fire on the militants themselves. Some civilians have been caught in the crossfire, but according to the International Committee of the Red Cross and Human Rights Watch there have been no large-scale violations of international law. Nor are army chiefs exaggerating the effect that their campaign has had on the Taliban. Military intelligence gave a sober assessment yesterday, admitting that a sizeable militant contingent was still left in the valley, about 40% of their original estimate of up to 5,000 fighters. But fighters have been ejected from the major population centres like Mingora. The army claims it has killed 1,700 fighters, but it has yet to reach their leaders, like Baitullah Mehsud, who remains at large.This is a mixed picture, which could change if a convoy of returning refugees was bombed, or the Taliban infiltrated town centres once again. But it is not the doomsday scenario being predicted two months ago. Swat is no longer a Taliban fortress and if resettlement is done with patience and care, and if civil militias weed the militants out, it will not be again. For this, credit is due to the army, which has restored the writ of the Pakistani state in Swat. What now has to happen here, as in Afghanistan, is that the provincial government has to re-emerge from its bunkers and fill the space liberated by combat.But they are not the only ones. With the exception of the US, the international community has yet to deliver on the $543m aid appeal the UN made in May. This aid is needed today even more than it was when the refugee exodus was on. Farmers who return to find their crops destroyed or shopkeepers who find their businesses looted will need food aid to survive. International donors need to keep alive to the fact that previous sweeps of this territory have all foundered at this very point.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Refugees", "United Nations", "Global development", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan: Disaster averted | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-02T11:14:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Gunmen wounded Pakistan's religious affairs minister in an attack in broad daylight today in Islamabad.Local media said Saeed Kazmi was shot in his car and his driver killed.According to Geo News, two gunmen on a motorbike fired at the vehicle before escaping. The minister is said to have been shot in the knee and was undergoing an operation.\"Gunmen sprayed bullets on the minister's car,\" said a police officer who identified himself as Qasim. He said Kazmi was in a stable condition.The minister has been critical of Islamist militants blamed for scores of attacks in Pakistan over the last two and a half years. Last month, Kazmi defended the government offensive in the Swat valley that displaced hundreds of thousands of civilians from what was once a popular tourist area.He said the government had tried its best to restore order through peaceful means, and blamed extremists for attacking civilians and disregarding a truce. A military operation, he said, had become imperative in view of the frequent suicide attacks against security forces.The army launched a campaign in April to clear the Taliban from Swat and Buner, two valleys a few hours' drive from Islamabad. Pakistan has been on high alert for retaliatory attacks by Taliban insurgents and groups linked to al-Qaida since a US missile strike killed the Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud early last month.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Al-Qaida"], "title": "Pakistan minister Saeed Kazmi injured in shooting"},{"date": "2009-08-24T09:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In decades past, the town mullahs decried the use of megaphones during the call to prayer. Now they have embraced the technology in Pakistan. In every city the loud blare of the muezzin echoes throughout the streets, although they rarely call out in unison. For centuries Muslims have bickered over prayer times, and much else.For the people of Gojra's Christian Colony, in rural Punjab, the mosque megaphones presented a more worrying proposition. \"These are infidels, killing them is permitted,\" screamed one local imam from his mosques as, two weeks ago, a Muslim mob stormed the colony on hearing a rumour, later found to be false, that a Christian had desecrated a copy of the Qur'an. About a hundred homes were burned to the grown along with nine people, most of whom were burned alive in their dwellings.Vulnerable minorities are often targeted as a result of petty grievances or property disputes, and Christian Colony residents believe the attack was sponsored by a local businessman keen to take their land. \"There shouldn't be a double standard. In our churches and homes ... so many bibles have been burned,\" a local priest said. That principle holds true for those who perished, too.The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan believes the attack was premeditated: \"Witnesses said the attackers went about destroying Christians' houses in a very professional manner and seemed to be trained for carrying out such activities.\"Members of Sipa-e-Sahaba, an outlawed Sunni extremist group that also targets Shias and Sunnis it considers apostate, are thought to be behind the attack. Heightening this violent drama, Sipa-e-Sahaba's leader Allama Ali Sher Hyderi was shot dead last week in his home town of Khairpur, northern Sindh, in what appears to be a reprisal killing.Sipa-e-Sahaba is meant to be banned. But the Pakistan Ullema Council, a powerful mainstream religious body that is also hostile to Christians, Shias and some Sunni sects, condemned Hyderi's assassination while religious groups staged protests across the nation. There have been only muted protests for the Christians of Gojra while many self-confessed champions of the marginalised like Imran Khan have remained silent.Ever since the forced \"Islamisation\" of Pakistan under former dictator Zia ul-Haq, fanatical Sunni religious groups have loudly and aggressively pushed an intolerant brand of Islam. Although they have consistently fared poorly in elections contested by major political parties or not massively rigged in their favour, they are a powerful lobby greatly feared by governments, the public and even the judiciary.It would be unfair, however, to only blame religious groups for the spreading intolerance. \"Sectarian conflict in Pakistan is the direct consequence of state policies of Islamisation and marginalisation of secular democratic forces,\" concludes an International Crisis Group report.Under Zia, school textbooks were purged of any positive reference to minorities or Muslim traditions considered too pagan. Students were taught that Pakistan was a global vanguard of Sunni Islam forever threatened by Hindus, Jews and western imperialists. Pakistan's penal code was amended to make blasphemy against Islam, including desecration of the Qur'an, a crime under strict penalties including life imprisonment to death. The Hudood Ordinance left millions of victims of rape exposed to the new crime of adultery while the testimony of non-Muslims was judged to be half the value of a Muslim.Zia apart, the Pakistan army's patronage of militancy inspired by chauvinist and xenophobic interpretation of Islam is well known. The Gojra attack occurred in the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz party heartland. Even the clerics here pledge allegiance to the Sharif brothers. Elder sibling Nawaz is the federal opposition leader and, so say the polls, the most popular leader in the country. Shabaz, the younger Sharif, is Punjab's chief minister and a noted bureaucrat.According to one source, federal intelligence agencies had warned the PML-N-controlled Punjab government that a militant group was expected to do an attack on minority communities, but it was ignored.The Christians of Gojra don't vote for the PML-N but conservative middle class Muslims do. For years the party has been a bridge between politicised mainstream religious leaders and the formal political set-up. That linkage has its origins in Zia's sweeping Islamisation project.Amid this sobering tale there are thin slivers of hope. Most of Gojra's Christians were given refuge from the mob by their Muslim neighbours. Perhaps more opportunistically, the ardently secular Muttahida Quami Movement was quick to provide relief and call for the assailants to be punished.Pressed by the adverse publicity, both the Pakistan and Punjab governments have promised justice to the victims too. Islamabad says it will hold a judicial inquiry into the incident and push for reforms to the blasphemy laws.But any significant repeal of these laws will be a daunting task. \"Any government that takes on the project of amending these exploitative laws will have to confront this political Islamist lobby,\" noted former federal information minister and leading progressive politician Sherry Rehman. The Punjab government says it will provide compensation of up to 300,000 to 500,000 rupees, but victims say this is not sufficient recompense for the loss of lives and property.There were no Pakistan flags fluttering in Gojra on Independence Day, only black ones hoisted on any structure that was lucky enough to survive the attack. \"We're still waiting for our freedom, if this was our country this would not have happened,\" one Gojra resident told a news crew.Only an active roll-back of Zia's Islamisation of the state will prevent Pakistan from continued communal disintegration.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Religion", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Intolerance is sweeping across Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-09-11T14:19:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistan army has captured the Swat Taliban spokesman, Muslim Khan \u2013 the first arrest of an insurgent leader since the start of a major military offensive in the picturesque northern valley four months ago.The army spokesman, Major General Athar Abbas, said that Khan and another commander, Mahmood Khan, had been seized. Both had \u00a373,000 bounties on their heads. Three lesser Taliban leaders were also caught.The arrests took place in the suburbs of Mingora, the main town in Swat, the army said on its website. Alongside the announcement was a photo of a glum-looking Khan, his trademark black turban removed to reveal silver hair.The announcement came shortly after the News reported that Khan had been engaged in secret peace talks with the government in Islamabad. The interior minister, Rehman Malik, denied the claims.\"There will be no negotiations with the terrorists,\" he told reporters. \"They have no other option. They either get killed or arrested.\"The timing of the announcement also elicited speculation that it was intended to coincide with the anniversary of the September 11 attacks in America. Officials in Obama's administration have praised Pakistan for its Swat drive.However, Khan's capture will have a more immediate impact in the valley itself, where military and provincial authorities are keen to combat fears of a Taliban comeback. The army has managed to clear most of Swat of gunmen since fighting erupted in May, and many of the 1 million people who fled their homes have now returned.Nevertheless, Pockets of violent resistance persist along the western bank of the river Swat, and the atmosphere in the valley remains anxious. Human rights groups have accused the army of summarily executing suspected militants after bloodied corpses were dumped in the streets.On 30 August, a suicide bomber killed at least 15 police recruits at a training centre in Mingora, stirring fears of a new campaign of guerrilla violence.In recent months, some local residents have become bolder in contributing to the defence effort. Up to 8,000 men have joined local lashkars, or village militias, to keep the Taliban at bay, Dawn newspaper reported this week. One such lashkar killed three militants in a confrontation outside a mosque last week.Tribal elders expect the numbers enrolled in lashkars to double by November.But the success of the Taliban leadership in evading capture has caused sceptical residents to doubt whether the army is serious about eliminating the insurgency.Persistent reports of the demise of Shah Doran, one of the most notorious commanders, were never confirmed.That scepticism may now cease with the arrest of Khan. As spokesman and a senior commander in his own right, he is close to the Taliban leader Mullah Fazlullah.In an interview with the Guardian last April, Khan explained his vision of forging a global Islamic caliphate. \"We want to make a unity of Muslims states, just like the United States of America,\" he said, speaking as he juggled phone calls at the Taliban headquarters on the banks of the river Swat.A burly man in a silky, jet-black turban, Khan spoke broken English with an American twang \u2013 he worked in Boston as a house-painter and a petrol-pump attendant in the late 1990s.He defended a group of Taliban fighters for lashing a teenage girl in punishment, a shaky video of which had shocked Pakistanis and would prove instrumental in galvanising public opinion against the militants.The envisioned Islamic caliphate would have no room for elections, he added. \"Democracy is a system of European countries. It is not good for Muslims,\" he said.", "tags": ["Taliban", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan army captures Taliban leader in Swat"},{"date": "2009-08-30T09:48:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "At least 14 police recruits were killed by a suicide bomber in Pakistan's Swat valley today \u2013 the deadliest attack since the army regained control of the area from the Taliban.The blast, which happened in the yard of the main police station in Mingora, the major town in the north-west valley, came a day after the army said it had destroyed a nearby training camp for suicide bombers.Members of a new community police force set up to patrol the region were being trained when the attacker detonated his explosives, the provincial information minister, Mian Iftikhar Hussain, told the Geo TV channel.Footage showed officers removing bodies from outside the police station, which has been bombed twice in recent months.The bodies of at least 14 police volunteers were brought to a local hospital.Eight recruits injured in the explosion were receiving treatment, Ikram Khan, a hospital official, told the Associated Press.Idrees Khan, the local police chief, said at least 20 people had been wounded.He denied reports that the attacker was in uniform and could have been one of the police volunteers.\"No, we don't have any such report \u2013 but yes, a suicide bomber sneaked into the training for recruits,\" he said.He blamed the attack on the decision to relax a daily curfew in the area for the holy month of Ramadan, saying security would be stepped up.The Pakistani prime minister, Yusuf Raza Gilani, said: \"We will not allow the enemies of the country to succeed in their evil designs.\"Police blocked roads around the area soon after the blast, ordering nearby residents to stay inside.Pakistani army officials said forces were restoring security in Swat and the surrounding areas after a three-month military offensive took the valley back from Taliban control, but suicide attacks and fighting have continued.Five soldiers were killed in a suicide attack at a security checkpoint in the Swat valley on 15 August.Last month, the military declared Mingora and the surrounding areas to have been cleared of militants, except for small pockets of resistance.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Police recruits killed in Pakistan suicide bombing"},{"date": "2009-08-12T15:49:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's military has strenuously rejected allegations by a British academic that al-Qaida is targeting the country's nuclear facilities in an attempt to obtain weapons for use against the west.In an article for a US military journal, Professor Shaun Gregory, of the University of Bradford, said al-Qaida and the Taliban had targeted the country's nuclear infrastructure three times in the last two years.Gregory cited suicide attacks on a \"nuclear missile site\", a \"nuclear airbase\" and a munitions complex at Wah, close to Islamabad, described as \"one of Pakistan's main nuclear weapons assembly sites\".\"The risk of the transfer of nuclear weapons, weapons components or nuclear expertise to terrorists in Pakistan is genuine,\" he wrote.A military spokesman, Major General Athar Abbas, said Gregory's claims were \"factually incorrect\" and part of a western propaganda campaign to \"malign Pakistan and its nuclear facilities\".The bases at Wah, Sargodha and Kamra were used to manufacture conventional weapons, ammunition and fighters jet, he said. \"There are military facilities, not nuclear installations.\"The suicide attacks were widely reported when they occurred and generally were not linked to Pakistan's secretive nuclear programme, which has an estimated 60 to 100 warheads.Gregory cited a US website, the Long War Journal, as the source for his claims, the most contentious of which surrounds the Wah complex. When it was bombed in August 2008, a Taliban spokesman claimed responsibility, saying it was retaliation for army-inflicted civilian deaths in the tribal belt.Talat Masood, a retired general and political analyst who ran the factory for eight years in the 1980s, said the nuclear link was \"absolute nonsense\".The only known overt Taliban strike against Pakistan's nuclear infrastructure occurred last month, when a motorcycle-riding suicide bomber hit a bus carrying employees of Kahuta Research Laboratories, a major uranium enrichment facility, as it passed through Rawalpindi. Up to six people were killed.Pakistan's nuclear programme is a source of both immense national pride and sensitivity. According to a popular conspiracy theory, the US is fomenting the Taliban insurgency to create an excuse for American troops to disarm the warheads.In recent years as the country plunged into turmoil, the Pakistani military has reached out to stress the security of its atomic assets. The Strategic Plans Division, which oversees nuclear operations, regularly briefs visiting diplomats and journalists about safeguards it describes as world-class.One element is the personnel reliability programme, modelled on a similar US initiative, which regularly screens nuclear workers for \"Islamist sympathies, personality problems, drug use, inappropriate external affiliations, and sexual deviancy,\" according to Gregory. The army has jealously resisted US efforts to assert control over its security measures.Meanwhile, reports emerged that at least 70 people have been killed in fighting between tribal factions in the wake of Baitullah Mehsud's apparent assassination a week ago.The clashes occurred in Jandola, a town on the edge of South Wazisitan, between forces loyal to Mehsud and the pro-government tribal leader Turkistan Bhittani. Mehsud is thought to have died in a US drone strike on 5 August. Taliban commanders insist he survived but have produced no proof to back their claim.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Nuclear weapons", "Al-Qaida", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan denies al-Qaida targeting nuclear facilities"},{"date": "2009-08-20T11:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Despite the recent offensive by the Pakistani army in the Swat Valley and by Nato in Helmand province, the \"Talibanisation\" of both Afghanistan and Pakistan proceeds apace. Vast parts of the Afghan south and a large region in western Pakistan are still under de facto control of Taliban militants who enforce a violent form of sharia law.Western responses oscillate between calls for a secular alternative to the religious fundamentalism of the Taliban and attempts to engage the moderate elements among them. Neither will solve the underlying religious clash between indigenous Sufi Islam and the Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi extremism. The UK and US must change strategy and adopt a policy that supports the peaceful indigenous Muslim tradition of Sufism while thwarting Saudi Arabia's promotion of the dangerous Wahhabi creed that fuels violence and sectarian tension.As Afghanistan goes to the polls this week, western political and military leaders now recognise that stability and peace in the country cannot be created by military force alone. Like the \"surge\" strategy in Iraq which reduced suicide bombings by driving a wedge between indigenous Sunnis and foreign jihadists, the US and its European allies will try to separate the Taliban from al-Qaida fighters who infiltrate Afghanistan from across the border in Pakistan. By combining \"surgical\" strikes against terrorists in the Afghan-Pakistani border region with a political strategy aimed at \"moderate\" Taliban, President Obama hopes to save the US mission from disaster.The problem is that those Taliban who would be prepared to talk have little leverage and those who have influence feel that they have little incentive to compromise, as they have gained the upper hand. Unlike many Sunnis in Iraq, most Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan have embraced the puritanical and fundamentalist Islam of the Wahhabi mullahs from Saudi Arabia who wage a ruthless war not just against western \"infidels\" but also against fellow Muslims they consider to be apostates, in particular the Sufis.Sufi Islam is not limited to the southern Pakistani province of Sindh on the border with India. It also exists elsewhere in Pakistan and has been present in Afghanistan for centuries, as exemplified by the 18th-century poet and mystic Rahman Baba whose shrine at the foot of the Khyber Pass (linking Afghanistan and Pakistan) still attracts many Sufi faithful from both sides of the border.All this changed in the 1980s when during the Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion, elements in Saudi Arabia poured in money, arms and extremist ideology. Through a network of madrasas, Saudi-sponsored Wahhabi Islam indoctrinated young Muslims with fundamentalist Puritanism, denouncing Sufi music and poetry as decadent and immoral. At Attock, not far from Rahman Baba's shrine on the Khyber Pass, stands the Haqqania madrassa, one of the most radical schools where the Taliban leader Mullah Omar was trained. Across the Pakistani border, the tolerant Sufi-minded Barelvi form of indigenous Islam has also been supplanted by the hardline Wahhabi creed.This madrassa-inspired and Saudi-financed Wahhabi Islam is destroying indigenous Islam in both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Crucially, it is imposing a radical creed that represents a distortion and perversion of true Islam. Wahhabi followers beheaded a Polish geologist in February (as revenge for Polish troops in Afghanistan) and blew up a century-old shrine dedicated to Rahman Baba in the Pakistani town of Peshawar in March.The actions of the west and its Afghan and Pakistani allies are making matters worse. By causing civilian deaths through aerial bombings, the US is driving ordinary Afghans and Pakistani into the arms of the jihadi terrorists. By declaring sharia law in Pakistan's northwestern Swat region to appease the local Taliban and by using Islamism in the ongoing conflict with India over Kashmir, Pakistan's government is emboldening the extremists and undermining Sufi Islam.What is required, first of all, is to prevent Saudi Arabia from playing a duplicitous game whereby the authorities in Riyadh help the Afghan President Karzai in his attempts to woo moderate Taliban while promoting the violent creed of Wahhabism across this volatile region. The west should call Saudi Arabia's bluff and not surrender to Riyadh's threats of ending security co-operation and information exchange on international terrorism which thrives on Saudi-exported Wahhabi ideology.The west and Muslim countries such as Jordan should also put pressure on the Pakistani authorities to confront Wahhabism by expelling Saudi hate preachers, closing the Wahhabi madrassas and establishing schools that teach the peaceful Islam of Sufism.By itself this strategy will of course not be sufficient to eradicate violence in Afghanistan and Pakistan. But without an alternative policy based on religion, this religious conflict will further escalate.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Religion", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan must confront Wahhabism | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-07-31T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It was the year 1946. The man did not speak English, and yet sat attentively listening to a speech by the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, with great enthusiasm. The listener shouted, clapped, and supported Jinnah's every utterance.\"Why?\" asked another man. \"Why do you support Jinnah when you don't understand what he's talking about?\" The listener responded: \"Because I know Jinnah is on my side. He speaks for me.\"So what did Jinnah create for the average Pakistani? Last week, I visited Pakistan for the first time for a national conference of students from across Pakistan. The student leaders I met, the next generation of Pakistani politicians, unlike Jinnah's listener, understood English and listened attentively to what Maajid Nawaz and I said. Surrounded by the thoughts and candid reflections of students and professors, I realised that Pakistan was in a deep identity crisis. What was Pakistan? If British Pakistanis complain about identity and belonging in Britain, as they do, life in Pakistan did not offer much solace.What was Pakistan? A so-called Islamic state? Well, that's not what Jinnah imagined and self-proclaimed Islamist parties have repeatedly lost elections. A secular state? The Urdu translation of the word \"secular\", ladiniyyat, \"non-religion\", makes the word appear anti-religious in its connotations, yet Pakistan is intensely religious. So what is Pakistan? And why was it created? Where was the sense in leaving behind the majority of Muslims in India, and breaking away to form an independent state for Muslims? And to then have it further divided from Bangladesh in 1971?Where is Pakistan heading? Punjabi, Sindhi, Pahari and similar terms resonated more with some students than did \"Pakistan\". Students I met from Balochistan condemned Pakistan and wanted to break away. In their communities, it was not \"Pakistan zindabad\", \"long live Pakistan\" that was the slogan in public meetings, but \"Pakistan murdabad\", or \"death to Pakistan\".These were sensitive issues, but despite the appearance of fragility I think it is healthy that student leaders were able to discuss these matters openly, unlike in most Arab countries. Issues relating to Kurds in Syria, for example, are matters of arrest and torture. Questioning the wisdom of creating Arab states, or the utility of their rulers, is a matter of political unrest. In contrast, the healthy and robust Pakistani media and civil society make a daily meal of undermining President Asif Ali Zardari and his government .Away from students, campuses and debates surrounding identity and terrorism, life in Pakistan was different from what I'd expected. I imagined that a nation that prides itself on possessing a nuclear bomb, would at least have the infrastructure with which to deliver clean drinking water and regular electricity supply to its people. But no. In major cities with tens of millions of inhabitants, power cuts are still a daily occurrence. For four days in Karachi last week, people had no clean drinking water. Load shedding, or electricity blackouts, also last for days. With heat levels at 45 degrees, the stench, paralysis, misery and anger run deep. How do the children and elderly cope? And yet life goes on.I saw young, tired men with donkeys and pull-carts at traffic lights besides Toyota jeeps driven by overweight men. There were elderly, hunch-backed beggars pleading for pennies from aspiring pop stars with high-end Rolex watches and rich parents. The rich in Pakistan are very rich, with mansions in Surrey and flats in Mayfair. President Zardari himself knows this first hand.I saw prostitutes enticing clients in Lahore's vast red light district, a stone's throw away from those who preach it is haram (forbidden), but failed to provide an alternative to these poor women. Iqbal Hussain, a Pakistani artist and son of and brother to industry women, raises these difficult questions in his paintings of women and their lives in this underworld, ignored publicly, yet cherished privately, by Pakistan's elite.I met elite society in Lahore, who could not believe that I could be a Muslim and a liberal. For me, there are no contradictions and yet, for them, they felt the need to declare their atheism with pride, expecting me to admire their freedom. I do. But I don't share their convictions, and lament how religious extremists have successfully chased decent people away from Islam. And how the attraction of the west has been reduced to professing atheism.I judge nations by their bookshops. When I was living in Saudi Arabia, I was always frustrated by how the narrow-minded authorities banned books and filtered my choice to dull subjects, and filled bookshops with gadgets rather than books. In contrast, Pakistan is a free country with bookshops that store everything from Lady Windermere's Fan to the Kama Sutra. That confident, boisterous attitude to books and unbridled discussions leaves Pakistan in a better position than other Muslim-majority countries.At shrines of prominent Muslim saints, especially the much-loved Bulleh Shah, I saw ordinary people visit, sing freely, dance and play centuries-old musical instruments. Where is this joy in Britain's Islamic communities? In Pakistan's shrines, I witnessed an Islam of the soul \u2013 an inner joy that allowed people to let their hair down, away from the ritual-obsessed, but vacuous clerics. Late into the night, I watched the merriment of their divine dances.And by day I was back to addressing young professionals and students on getting away from blaming India and the west for their problems. Without doubt, they appreciated a new message that Islam and secularism were not polar opposites, that the west was not a monolith, and Pakistan can find a place in the modern world free from terror and extremism. And they rightly complained about the violation of Pakistan's sovereignty by US drone attacks, the corruption of their ruling class and the dangerous emergence of dynastic politics.Unlike Jinnah's audiences, the young Pakistani students understood English and grasped what was said. But do they believe that ordinary westerners are on their side? That we in the west will respect and extend friendships to people across the world as equals, as humans? And stop launching ideological wars? I am not sure, and nor are ordinary Pakistanis. After all, Barack Obama warned Pakistan that war was on the table. We do not win hearts and minds by threatening war.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Can we befriend Pakistan? | Ed Husain"},{"date": "2009-07-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 17 July 2009Assessing the outcome of the Pakistani army's anti-Taliban offensive in Buner and Swat, a leader comment cited the International Committee of the Red Cross as one of the authorities for saying that no large-scale human rights abuses were found to have been committed. The ICRC has not made any statement about its monitoring work, which is kept confidential. Careers have been made out of predicting the imminent breakup of Pakistan. But even for the resolute, the events of March and May were hard to take. Militants appeared to strike any target in the country with impunity, be it the visiting Sri Lankan cricket team or the offices of the Inter-Services Intelligence agency in Lahore. Many, too, doubted whether the army would have the political will - let alone the military resolve - to take the Taliban on in Buner and Swat. But it did, triggering the exodus of nearly 2 million refugees in the process. Now that the first refugees are starting to return after two months of sporadic fighting, it is time to assess the outcome.The worst has not happened. The army has avoided causing heavy civilian casualties, which were a feature of previous forays such as the one in Bajaur, and concentrated its fire on the militants themselves. Some civilians have been caught in the crossfire, but according to the International Committee of the Red Cross and Human Rights Watch there have been no large-scale violations of international law. Nor are army chiefs exaggerating the effect that their campaign has had on the Taliban. Military intelligence gave a sober assessment yesterday, admitting that a sizeable militant contingent was still left in the valley, about 40% of their original estimate of up to 5,000 fighters. But fighters have been ejected from the major population centres like Mingora. The army claims it has killed 1,700 fighters, but it has yet to reach their leaders, like Baitullah Mehsud, who remains at large.This is a mixed picture, which could change if a convoy of returning refugees was bombed, or the Taliban infiltrated town centres once again. But it is not the doomsday scenario being predicted two months ago. Swat is no longer a Taliban fortress and if resettlement is done with patience and care, and if civil militias weed the militants out, it will not be again. For this, credit is due to the army, which has restored the writ of the Pakistani state in Swat. What now has to happen here, as in Afghanistan, is that the provincial government has to re-emerge from its bunkers and fill the space liberated by combat.But they are not the only ones. With the exception of the US, the international community has yet to deliver on the $543m aid appeal the UN made in May. This aid is needed today even more than it was when the refugee exodus was on. Farmers who return to find their crops destroyed or shopkeepers who find their businesses looted will need food aid to survive. International donors need to keep alive to the fact that previous sweeps of this territory have all foundered at this very point.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Refugees", "United Nations", "Global development", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan: Disaster averted | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-02T11:14:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Gunmen wounded Pakistan's religious affairs minister in an attack in broad daylight today in Islamabad.Local media said Saeed Kazmi was shot in his car and his driver killed.According to Geo News, two gunmen on a motorbike fired at the vehicle before escaping. The minister is said to have been shot in the knee and was undergoing an operation.\"Gunmen sprayed bullets on the minister's car,\" said a police officer who identified himself as Qasim. He said Kazmi was in a stable condition.The minister has been critical of Islamist militants blamed for scores of attacks in Pakistan over the last two and a half years. Last month, Kazmi defended the government offensive in the Swat valley that displaced hundreds of thousands of civilians from what was once a popular tourist area.He said the government had tried its best to restore order through peaceful means, and blamed extremists for attacking civilians and disregarding a truce. A military operation, he said, had become imperative in view of the frequent suicide attacks against security forces.The army launched a campaign in April to clear the Taliban from Swat and Buner, two valleys a few hours' drive from Islamabad. Pakistan has been on high alert for retaliatory attacks by Taliban insurgents and groups linked to al-Qaida since a US missile strike killed the Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud early last month.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Al-Qaida"], "title": "Pakistan minister Saeed Kazmi injured in shooting"},{"date": "2009-08-24T09:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In decades past, the town mullahs decried the use of megaphones during the call to prayer. Now they have embraced the technology in Pakistan. In every city the loud blare of the muezzin echoes throughout the streets, although they rarely call out in unison. For centuries Muslims have bickered over prayer times, and much else.For the people of Gojra's Christian Colony, in rural Punjab, the mosque megaphones presented a more worrying proposition. \"These are infidels, killing them is permitted,\" screamed one local imam from his mosques as, two weeks ago, a Muslim mob stormed the colony on hearing a rumour, later found to be false, that a Christian had desecrated a copy of the Qur'an. About a hundred homes were burned to the grown along with nine people, most of whom were burned alive in their dwellings.Vulnerable minorities are often targeted as a result of petty grievances or property disputes, and Christian Colony residents believe the attack was sponsored by a local businessman keen to take their land. \"There shouldn't be a double standard. In our churches and homes ... so many bibles have been burned,\" a local priest said. That principle holds true for those who perished, too.The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan believes the attack was premeditated: \"Witnesses said the attackers went about destroying Christians' houses in a very professional manner and seemed to be trained for carrying out such activities.\"Members of Sipa-e-Sahaba, an outlawed Sunni extremist group that also targets Shias and Sunnis it considers apostate, are thought to be behind the attack. Heightening this violent drama, Sipa-e-Sahaba's leader Allama Ali Sher Hyderi was shot dead last week in his home town of Khairpur, northern Sindh, in what appears to be a reprisal killing.Sipa-e-Sahaba is meant to be banned. But the Pakistan Ullema Council, a powerful mainstream religious body that is also hostile to Christians, Shias and some Sunni sects, condemned Hyderi's assassination while religious groups staged protests across the nation. There have been only muted protests for the Christians of Gojra while many self-confessed champions of the marginalised like Imran Khan have remained silent.Ever since the forced \"Islamisation\" of Pakistan under former dictator Zia ul-Haq, fanatical Sunni religious groups have loudly and aggressively pushed an intolerant brand of Islam. Although they have consistently fared poorly in elections contested by major political parties or not massively rigged in their favour, they are a powerful lobby greatly feared by governments, the public and even the judiciary.It would be unfair, however, to only blame religious groups for the spreading intolerance. \"Sectarian conflict in Pakistan is the direct consequence of state policies of Islamisation and marginalisation of secular democratic forces,\" concludes an International Crisis Group report.Under Zia, school textbooks were purged of any positive reference to minorities or Muslim traditions considered too pagan. Students were taught that Pakistan was a global vanguard of Sunni Islam forever threatened by Hindus, Jews and western imperialists. Pakistan's penal code was amended to make blasphemy against Islam, including desecration of the Qur'an, a crime under strict penalties including life imprisonment to death. The Hudood Ordinance left millions of victims of rape exposed to the new crime of adultery while the testimony of non-Muslims was judged to be half the value of a Muslim.Zia apart, the Pakistan army's patronage of militancy inspired by chauvinist and xenophobic interpretation of Islam is well known. The Gojra attack occurred in the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz party heartland. Even the clerics here pledge allegiance to the Sharif brothers. Elder sibling Nawaz is the federal opposition leader and, so say the polls, the most popular leader in the country. Shabaz, the younger Sharif, is Punjab's chief minister and a noted bureaucrat.According to one source, federal intelligence agencies had warned the PML-N-controlled Punjab government that a militant group was expected to do an attack on minority communities, but it was ignored.The Christians of Gojra don't vote for the PML-N but conservative middle class Muslims do. For years the party has been a bridge between politicised mainstream religious leaders and the formal political set-up. That linkage has its origins in Zia's sweeping Islamisation project.Amid this sobering tale there are thin slivers of hope. Most of Gojra's Christians were given refuge from the mob by their Muslim neighbours. Perhaps more opportunistically, the ardently secular Muttahida Quami Movement was quick to provide relief and call for the assailants to be punished.Pressed by the adverse publicity, both the Pakistan and Punjab governments have promised justice to the victims too. Islamabad says it will hold a judicial inquiry into the incident and push for reforms to the blasphemy laws.But any significant repeal of these laws will be a daunting task. \"Any government that takes on the project of amending these exploitative laws will have to confront this political Islamist lobby,\" noted former federal information minister and leading progressive politician Sherry Rehman. The Punjab government says it will provide compensation of up to 300,000 to 500,000 rupees, but victims say this is not sufficient recompense for the loss of lives and property.There were no Pakistan flags fluttering in Gojra on Independence Day, only black ones hoisted on any structure that was lucky enough to survive the attack. \"We're still waiting for our freedom, if this was our country this would not have happened,\" one Gojra resident told a news crew.Only an active roll-back of Zia's Islamisation of the state will prevent Pakistan from continued communal disintegration.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Religion", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Intolerance is sweeping across Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-09-11T14:19:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistan army has captured the Swat Taliban spokesman, Muslim Khan \u2013 the first arrest of an insurgent leader since the start of a major military offensive in the picturesque northern valley four months ago.The army spokesman, Major General Athar Abbas, said that Khan and another commander, Mahmood Khan, had been seized. Both had \u00a373,000 bounties on their heads. Three lesser Taliban leaders were also caught.The arrests took place in the suburbs of Mingora, the main town in Swat, the army said on its website. Alongside the announcement was a photo of a glum-looking Khan, his trademark black turban removed to reveal silver hair.The announcement came shortly after the News reported that Khan had been engaged in secret peace talks with the government in Islamabad. The interior minister, Rehman Malik, denied the claims.\"There will be no negotiations with the terrorists,\" he told reporters. \"They have no other option. They either get killed or arrested.\"The timing of the announcement also elicited speculation that it was intended to coincide with the anniversary of the September 11 attacks in America. Officials in Obama's administration have praised Pakistan for its Swat drive.However, Khan's capture will have a more immediate impact in the valley itself, where military and provincial authorities are keen to combat fears of a Taliban comeback. The army has managed to clear most of Swat of gunmen since fighting erupted in May, and many of the 1 million people who fled their homes have now returned.Nevertheless, Pockets of violent resistance persist along the western bank of the river Swat, and the atmosphere in the valley remains anxious. Human rights groups have accused the army of summarily executing suspected militants after bloodied corpses were dumped in the streets.On 30 August, a suicide bomber killed at least 15 police recruits at a training centre in Mingora, stirring fears of a new campaign of guerrilla violence.In recent months, some local residents have become bolder in contributing to the defence effort. Up to 8,000 men have joined local lashkars, or village militias, to keep the Taliban at bay, Dawn newspaper reported this week. One such lashkar killed three militants in a confrontation outside a mosque last week.Tribal elders expect the numbers enrolled in lashkars to double by November.But the success of the Taliban leadership in evading capture has caused sceptical residents to doubt whether the army is serious about eliminating the insurgency.Persistent reports of the demise of Shah Doran, one of the most notorious commanders, were never confirmed.That scepticism may now cease with the arrest of Khan. As spokesman and a senior commander in his own right, he is close to the Taliban leader Mullah Fazlullah.In an interview with the Guardian last April, Khan explained his vision of forging a global Islamic caliphate. \"We want to make a unity of Muslims states, just like the United States of America,\" he said, speaking as he juggled phone calls at the Taliban headquarters on the banks of the river Swat.A burly man in a silky, jet-black turban, Khan spoke broken English with an American twang \u2013 he worked in Boston as a house-painter and a petrol-pump attendant in the late 1990s.He defended a group of Taliban fighters for lashing a teenage girl in punishment, a shaky video of which had shocked Pakistanis and would prove instrumental in galvanising public opinion against the militants.The envisioned Islamic caliphate would have no room for elections, he added. \"Democracy is a system of European countries. It is not good for Muslims,\" he said.", "tags": ["Taliban", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan army captures Taliban leader in Swat"},{"date": "2009-08-30T09:48:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "At least 14 police recruits were killed by a suicide bomber in Pakistan's Swat valley today \u2013 the deadliest attack since the army regained control of the area from the Taliban.The blast, which happened in the yard of the main police station in Mingora, the major town in the north-west valley, came a day after the army said it had destroyed a nearby training camp for suicide bombers.Members of a new community police force set up to patrol the region were being trained when the attacker detonated his explosives, the provincial information minister, Mian Iftikhar Hussain, told the Geo TV channel.Footage showed officers removing bodies from outside the police station, which has been bombed twice in recent months.The bodies of at least 14 police volunteers were brought to a local hospital.Eight recruits injured in the explosion were receiving treatment, Ikram Khan, a hospital official, told the Associated Press.Idrees Khan, the local police chief, said at least 20 people had been wounded.He denied reports that the attacker was in uniform and could have been one of the police volunteers.\"No, we don't have any such report \u2013 but yes, a suicide bomber sneaked into the training for recruits,\" he said.He blamed the attack on the decision to relax a daily curfew in the area for the holy month of Ramadan, saying security would be stepped up.The Pakistani prime minister, Yusuf Raza Gilani, said: \"We will not allow the enemies of the country to succeed in their evil designs.\"Police blocked roads around the area soon after the blast, ordering nearby residents to stay inside.Pakistani army officials said forces were restoring security in Swat and the surrounding areas after a three-month military offensive took the valley back from Taliban control, but suicide attacks and fighting have continued.Five soldiers were killed in a suicide attack at a security checkpoint in the Swat valley on 15 August.Last month, the military declared Mingora and the surrounding areas to have been cleared of militants, except for small pockets of resistance.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Police recruits killed in Pakistan suicide bombing"},{"date": "2009-08-12T15:49:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's military has strenuously rejected allegations by a British academic that al-Qaida is targeting the country's nuclear facilities in an attempt to obtain weapons for use against the west.In an article for a US military journal, Professor Shaun Gregory, of the University of Bradford, said al-Qaida and the Taliban had targeted the country's nuclear infrastructure three times in the last two years.Gregory cited suicide attacks on a \"nuclear missile site\", a \"nuclear airbase\" and a munitions complex at Wah, close to Islamabad, described as \"one of Pakistan's main nuclear weapons assembly sites\".\"The risk of the transfer of nuclear weapons, weapons components or nuclear expertise to terrorists in Pakistan is genuine,\" he wrote.A military spokesman, Major General Athar Abbas, said Gregory's claims were \"factually incorrect\" and part of a western propaganda campaign to \"malign Pakistan and its nuclear facilities\".The bases at Wah, Sargodha and Kamra were used to manufacture conventional weapons, ammunition and fighters jet, he said. \"There are military facilities, not nuclear installations.\"The suicide attacks were widely reported when they occurred and generally were not linked to Pakistan's secretive nuclear programme, which has an estimated 60 to 100 warheads.Gregory cited a US website, the Long War Journal, as the source for his claims, the most contentious of which surrounds the Wah complex. When it was bombed in August 2008, a Taliban spokesman claimed responsibility, saying it was retaliation for army-inflicted civilian deaths in the tribal belt.Talat Masood, a retired general and political analyst who ran the factory for eight years in the 1980s, said the nuclear link was \"absolute nonsense\".The only known overt Taliban strike against Pakistan's nuclear infrastructure occurred last month, when a motorcycle-riding suicide bomber hit a bus carrying employees of Kahuta Research Laboratories, a major uranium enrichment facility, as it passed through Rawalpindi. Up to six people were killed.Pakistan's nuclear programme is a source of both immense national pride and sensitivity. According to a popular conspiracy theory, the US is fomenting the Taliban insurgency to create an excuse for American troops to disarm the warheads.In recent years as the country plunged into turmoil, the Pakistani military has reached out to stress the security of its atomic assets. The Strategic Plans Division, which oversees nuclear operations, regularly briefs visiting diplomats and journalists about safeguards it describes as world-class.One element is the personnel reliability programme, modelled on a similar US initiative, which regularly screens nuclear workers for \"Islamist sympathies, personality problems, drug use, inappropriate external affiliations, and sexual deviancy,\" according to Gregory. The army has jealously resisted US efforts to assert control over its security measures.Meanwhile, reports emerged that at least 70 people have been killed in fighting between tribal factions in the wake of Baitullah Mehsud's apparent assassination a week ago.The clashes occurred in Jandola, a town on the edge of South Wazisitan, between forces loyal to Mehsud and the pro-government tribal leader Turkistan Bhittani. Mehsud is thought to have died in a US drone strike on 5 August. Taliban commanders insist he survived but have produced no proof to back their claim.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Nuclear weapons", "Al-Qaida", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan denies al-Qaida targeting nuclear facilities"},{"date": "2009-08-11T11:45:38Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A presumed US drone attack has killed at least eight people at a Taliban base in Pakistan's tribal belt, the first such strike since the apparent death of the Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud six days ago.Early reports suggested that a CIA-operated pilotless plane targeted a militant training facility this morning in the Kaniguram area of South Waziristan, Mehsud's mountain stronghold.The strike came hours after militants fired a dozen rockets into an upmarket neighbourhood of Peshawar, the capital of Pakistan's North West Frontier province, killing two people and wounding 10. Panicked residents fled their homes as missiles struck the Hayatabad district at about 1am, local police said.Later, an ambush by militants sparked a gunfight at a paramilitary Frontier Corps base on the city's outskirts. The military said three militants had been killed, but gave no casualty figures for its own side.Rocket attacks on major urban centres are rare in Pakistan, and last night's was seen as a violent response to government claims that Mehsud was killed in last Wednesday's drone attack.Senior Taliban commanders insist the notorious Taliban leader is alive and well, and have promised to produce video evidence today. The government say he is almost certainly dead, and that militants are trying to mask a violent power struggle for control of his Tehrik I Taliban Pakistan (TTP) group.\"The current position is that their men are scattered, and they are fighting with each other,\" Rehman Malik, the interior minister of Pakistan, told reporters.Some militant commanders issued statements yesterday describing Mehsud as \"seriously ill\", suggesting they were preparing the ground for an admission of his death.The individual or group targeted by the latest drone strike was not clear. South Waziristan is home to thousands of Mehsud fighters as well as a large contingent of al-Qaida fugitives, mostly from Uzbekistan.Ten of the last 11 US drone attacks have targeted the Mehsud network, suggesting increased co-operation with Pakistani intelligence. It is extremely difficult to get reliable information about the aftermath of such strikes, however, due to the area's remote terrain and the absence of government control.More violence has erupted elsewhere in the tribal belt, compounding the sense of chaos following Mehsud's apparent demise. Television stations reported that clashes between rival clans in Orakzai tribal agency had killed at least eight people.", "tags": ["Taliban", "Baitullah Mehsud", "Pakistan", "World news", "Drones (military)"], "title": "Deadly air strike targets Pakistan Taliban base"},{"date": "2009-12-18T00:05:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There was jubilation among Pakistan's lawyers about the decision by the country's supreme court to strike down an amnesty which allowed the late Benazir Bhutto and her husband Asif Ali Zardari to return from exile. Lawyers called the decision a landmark judgment. One former president of the Lahore High Court Bar Association, Anwar Kamal, said that the supreme court had closed the door on corruption in the country for all time to come. We shall see, but on one thing we should be clear. This was not purely a judicial act. The judgment reeked of politics, designed to unseat an unpopular president halfway through his term.Any independent court worth its name would have struck down the national reconciliation ordinance (NRO), the selective amnesty that the former president Pervez Musharraf concocted in 2007 as part of a power-sharing deal with Ms Bhutto brokered by the US and Britain. But the supreme court went far beyond this. By turning the clock back to the date when the ordinance was issued, the court ordered that all cases and investigations frozen by the amnesty be revived.Knowing that Mr Zardari would be protected\u00a0by the immunity he gets from his position as president, the court ordered the government to inform the Swiss authorities that a case against him there may be reopened. The thinking behind this is that if the president\u00a0cannot be prosecuted in his own land, he should be prosecuted in another. This is designed to increase the pressure on him to resign. The court also ordered the government to sack prosecutors, and ordered the interior\u00a0minister\u00a0Rehman Malik to issue himself with an arrest warrant. A decision conducted in the name of good\u00a0governance was aimed\u00a0instead\u00a0at crippling the government.Who profits from this? Rightwing members of the senior judiciary; sections of the military and intelligence establishment who regard Mr Zardari as too pro-American and want to stop him cracking down on the Afghan Taliban; and the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif. His own previous conviction was not covered by the NRO, but he profited from Ms Bhutto's return to Pakistan by coming home from exile himself.Mr Sharif has called for midterm elections. The unpopular Mr Zardari and his ruling Pakistan People's party are far from blameless. They could have seen this situation coming. Yesterday they were forced to say they respected the judgment, but also insist the president would not resign. Politics and the law are entwined in Pakistan, but the jubilant lawyers should be wary of getting what they wish for. They could be preparing not just the ousting of the PPP from power, but the re-entry of the army into it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Supreme court chaos"},{"date": "2009-12-18T00:05:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There was jubilation among Pakistan's lawyers about the decision by the country's supreme court to strike down an amnesty which allowed the late Benazir Bhutto and her husband Asif Ali Zardari to return from exile. Lawyers called the decision a landmark judgment. One former president of the Lahore High Court Bar Association, Anwar Kamal, said that the supreme court had closed the door on corruption in the country for all time to come. We shall see, but on one thing we should be clear. This was not purely a judicial act. The judgment reeked of politics, designed to unseat an unpopular president halfway through his term.Any independent court worth its name would have struck down the national reconciliation ordinance (NRO), the selective amnesty that the former president Pervez Musharraf concocted in 2007 as part of a power-sharing deal with Ms Bhutto brokered by the US and Britain. But the supreme court went far beyond this. By turning the clock back to the date when the ordinance was issued, the court ordered that all cases and investigations frozen by the amnesty be revived.Knowing that Mr Zardari would be protected\u00a0by the immunity he gets from his position as president, the court ordered the government to inform the Swiss authorities that a case against him there may be reopened. The thinking behind this is that if the president\u00a0cannot be prosecuted in his own land, he should be prosecuted in another. This is designed to increase the pressure on him to resign. The court also ordered the government to sack prosecutors, and ordered the interior\u00a0minister\u00a0Rehman Malik to issue himself with an arrest warrant. A decision conducted in the name of good\u00a0governance was aimed\u00a0instead\u00a0at crippling the government.Who profits from this? Rightwing members of the senior judiciary; sections of the military and intelligence establishment who regard Mr Zardari as too pro-American and want to stop him cracking down on the Afghan Taliban; and the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif. His own previous conviction was not covered by the NRO, but he profited from Ms Bhutto's return to Pakistan by coming home from exile himself.Mr Sharif has called for midterm elections. The unpopular Mr Zardari and his ruling Pakistan People's party are far from blameless. They could have seen this situation coming. Yesterday they were forced to say they respected the judgment, but also insist the president would not resign. Politics and the law are entwined in Pakistan, but the jubilant lawyers should be wary of getting what they wish for. They could be preparing not just the ousting of the PPP from power, but the re-entry of the army into it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Supreme court chaos"},{"date": "2009-12-09T00:05:38Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With every passing month, Barack Obama is sinking deeper into a long-term regional conflict in Afghanistan. The latest ominous sign was a report in the New York Times that America had threatened to target two Taliban groups sheltering in Pakistan if the government in Islamabad refused to do the job itself. This was characterised as a bald warning, rather than an ultimatum, and it went like this: unless the Pakistan army moved against Afghan Taliban leaders in the frontier town of Quetta, and the Haqqani network in North Waziristan, America would do so with drones. They could even deploy US special forces on Pakistani soil.The last time US troops crossed the border to raid a village where militants were thought to be sheltering, there was such a political furore in Pakistan that the US was forced to promise never to use boots on ground again. Since then, relations between the US and Pakistan military have been patched up. A US drone killed Baitullah Mehsud, the leader of Tehrik-i-Taliban and Pakistan's public enemy number one, and the Pakistan army has conducted two large-scale operations against Taliban militants in Swat and South Waziristan, sustaining a bombardment of reprisals against civilian and military targets. The official line is that Pakistan is fighting its own war against militants, not a proxy one or America's. Pakistan's prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, whose authority is rising as his president's is falling, said that his \u00ad civilian government did not distinguish between one militant and the next. That is only half the\u00a0picture.The other half is that, for all its co-operation with the US, the Pakistan army and the military-run Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) believe that India remains the strategic threat. They will not easily abandon the tools they have created to combat it. Still less will they do so if they know that the US will start pulling troops out of Afghanistan in 18 months' time. It may no longer control the Afghan Taliban in the way that it did a decade ago, but the Pakistan army has shown a marked reluctance to target leading Talibs in the Quetta Shura, with whom historically they have had no quarrel. On the one hand, the US demand is unsurprising. If thousands of extra US troops are to be sent to shore up Helmand, it makes no military sense to keep Baluchistan \u2013 on the other side of the border \u2013 a no-fire zone. But on the other hand, the threat of US action in Baluchistan represents a dangerous escalation. Mr Obama is demanding no less than that the Pakistan army reverse a policy it has pursued for decades in the name of a war it does not believe in.There are other factors which might give the US military pause for thought. First, Baluchistan has its own insurgency, although the ethnic Baluchs are largely secular and have little truck with militants in the frontier zone. Second, it borders Iran, which has had its own history with Baluch separatism. A Baluch militia recently raided the Iranian city of Pishin, killing senior figures in the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. A group of 11 Iranian agents were intercepted a week later in Pakistan, and later released. But the incident was a reminder that this border is not peaceful. Third, the drones that the US is threatening to deploy fly from a desert strip in Baluchistan itself. If the Pakistan army wanted to stop US drones, all it would have to do is close the airfield down.For all these reasons, we are unlikely to see large-scale unilateral US action in Baluchistan. But the threat of cross-border raids highlights the dilemmas of the front-door approach. Because unless the US tackles the central cause of regional instability \u2013 the unfinished conflict between Pakistan and India over Kashmir \u2013 an Af-Pak policy makes little sense. It has to include India as well. Only Pakistan and India can jointly ensure a lasting peace in Afghanistan. But this is not the course on which America is currently engaged.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "US military", "Barack Obama", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Dangerous escalation"},{"date": "2009-12-18T00:05:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There was jubilation among Pakistan's lawyers about the decision by the country's supreme court to strike down an amnesty which allowed the late Benazir Bhutto and her husband Asif Ali Zardari to return from exile. Lawyers called the decision a landmark judgment. One former president of the Lahore High Court Bar Association, Anwar Kamal, said that the supreme court had closed the door on corruption in the country for all time to come. We shall see, but on one thing we should be clear. This was not purely a judicial act. The judgment reeked of politics, designed to unseat an unpopular president halfway through his term.Any independent court worth its name would have struck down the national reconciliation ordinance (NRO), the selective amnesty that the former president Pervez Musharraf concocted in 2007 as part of a power-sharing deal with Ms Bhutto brokered by the US and Britain. But the supreme court went far beyond this. By turning the clock back to the date when the ordinance was issued, the court ordered that all cases and investigations frozen by the amnesty be revived.Knowing that Mr Zardari would be protected\u00a0by the immunity he gets from his position as president, the court ordered the government to inform the Swiss authorities that a case against him there may be reopened. The thinking behind this is that if the president\u00a0cannot be prosecuted in his own land, he should be prosecuted in another. This is designed to increase the pressure on him to resign. The court also ordered the government to sack prosecutors, and ordered the interior\u00a0minister\u00a0Rehman Malik to issue himself with an arrest warrant. A decision conducted in the name of good\u00a0governance was aimed\u00a0instead\u00a0at crippling the government.Who profits from this? Rightwing members of the senior judiciary; sections of the military and intelligence establishment who regard Mr Zardari as too pro-American and want to stop him cracking down on the Afghan Taliban; and the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif. His own previous conviction was not covered by the NRO, but he profited from Ms Bhutto's return to Pakistan by coming home from exile himself.Mr Sharif has called for midterm elections. The unpopular Mr Zardari and his ruling Pakistan People's party are far from blameless. They could have seen this situation coming. Yesterday they were forced to say they respected the judgment, but also insist the president would not resign. Politics and the law are entwined in Pakistan, but the jubilant lawyers should be wary of getting what they wish for. They could be preparing not just the ousting of the PPP from power, but the re-entry of the army into it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Supreme court chaos"},{"date": "2009-12-09T00:05:38Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With every passing month, Barack Obama is sinking deeper into a long-term regional conflict in Afghanistan. The latest ominous sign was a report in the New York Times that America had threatened to target two Taliban groups sheltering in Pakistan if the government in Islamabad refused to do the job itself. This was characterised as a bald warning, rather than an ultimatum, and it went like this: unless the Pakistan army moved against Afghan Taliban leaders in the frontier town of Quetta, and the Haqqani network in North Waziristan, America would do so with drones. They could even deploy US special forces on Pakistani soil.The last time US troops crossed the border to raid a village where militants were thought to be sheltering, there was such a political furore in Pakistan that the US was forced to promise never to use boots on ground again. Since then, relations between the US and Pakistan military have been patched up. A US drone killed Baitullah Mehsud, the leader of Tehrik-i-Taliban and Pakistan's public enemy number one, and the Pakistan army has conducted two large-scale operations against Taliban militants in Swat and South Waziristan, sustaining a bombardment of reprisals against civilian and military targets. The official line is that Pakistan is fighting its own war against militants, not a proxy one or America's. Pakistan's prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, whose authority is rising as his president's is falling, said that his \u00ad civilian government did not distinguish between one militant and the next. That is only half the\u00a0picture.The other half is that, for all its co-operation with the US, the Pakistan army and the military-run Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) believe that India remains the strategic threat. They will not easily abandon the tools they have created to combat it. Still less will they do so if they know that the US will start pulling troops out of Afghanistan in 18 months' time. It may no longer control the Afghan Taliban in the way that it did a decade ago, but the Pakistan army has shown a marked reluctance to target leading Talibs in the Quetta Shura, with whom historically they have had no quarrel. On the one hand, the US demand is unsurprising. If thousands of extra US troops are to be sent to shore up Helmand, it makes no military sense to keep Baluchistan \u2013 on the other side of the border \u2013 a no-fire zone. But on the other hand, the threat of US action in Baluchistan represents a dangerous escalation. Mr Obama is demanding no less than that the Pakistan army reverse a policy it has pursued for decades in the name of a war it does not believe in.There are other factors which might give the US military pause for thought. First, Baluchistan has its own insurgency, although the ethnic Baluchs are largely secular and have little truck with militants in the frontier zone. Second, it borders Iran, which has had its own history with Baluch separatism. A Baluch militia recently raided the Iranian city of Pishin, killing senior figures in the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. A group of 11 Iranian agents were intercepted a week later in Pakistan, and later released. But the incident was a reminder that this border is not peaceful. Third, the drones that the US is threatening to deploy fly from a desert strip in Baluchistan itself. If the Pakistan army wanted to stop US drones, all it would have to do is close the airfield down.For all these reasons, we are unlikely to see large-scale unilateral US action in Baluchistan. But the threat of cross-border raids highlights the dilemmas of the front-door approach. Because unless the US tackles the central cause of regional instability \u2013 the unfinished conflict between Pakistan and India over Kashmir \u2013 an Af-Pak policy makes little sense. It has to include India as well. Only Pakistan and India can jointly ensure a lasting peace in Afghanistan. But this is not the course on which America is currently engaged.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "US military", "Barack Obama", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Dangerous escalation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T15:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Until recently, Pakistan's most important internal threat was thought to be ethnic or regional, with \"separatist\" movements in Baluchistan, Sind or the North-West Frontier Province suspected of receiving support from neighbouring countries and crushed ruthlessly. After all, it was this kind of politics that had led to the disintegration of the country in the early 70s with the secession of East Pakistan and the birth of Bangladesh.Unless they were Shia, however, and thus seen as proxies of Iran, religious forms of protest and even militancy were widely held to pose only a local and certainly not an existential threat for the country. Indeed it is common to think of such groups as clients if not creatures of the state, or at least of some faction within its army and secret service, which are said to use their militants against Pakistan's domestic and international enemies in covert operations.In the last two years, however, and as a direct result of the \"war on terror\", there have been a series of unprecedented attacks against Pakistan's military as well as civilian leadership by groups fighting in the name of Islam. Commentators often talk about the state's loss of control over such outfits, or about their deployment by one faction of the state against another in a kind of turf war where each claims to be acting in the country's best interests. If true this would mean that the Pakistani state does not in fact exist and has devolved to provide some of the many contending powers that seek to control the country. And this should warn us that by analysing Pakistani politics in terms of who controls whom we end up with all parties being deprived of their integrity. What we need to do then is question all these categories, since the line between public and private has become blurred in them all.Nothing in Pakistan is what it appears to be. Controlled by the army, the state has no independent existence. The army in its turn is a corporation that owns vast tracts of land, industries and commercial enterprises, of which the military forms only one part. In this respect it is the true descendant of its ancestor, the East India Company, whose mercenary soldiers were also rented out to powers across the region, as Pakistani forces are to Saudi Arabia or the US.Like Britain's Indian army, it is also not a national institution, being drawn mostly from a few districts in the Punjab and North-West Frontier Province. For their part, the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups no longer speak the language of Islamic revolution or an Islamic state, as had been the case among religious parties for many decades. Instead they behave like private companies or even NGOs, claiming to provide good governance and ethical lifestyles in areas that have been taken over from the state and transformed into militant versions of the model communities and special economic zones that also proliferate in the subcontinent.Pakistan's Muslim militants are developing into the analogues of Maoist rebels in India, who also take over certain areas and attack government forces there to provide an alternative but non-governmental form of order. Managing territories within a state without apparently wanting to form a new government suggests a privatised and non-political ideal of governance, one that both Indian Maoists and Pakistani militants seem to espouse. The task before both governments is therefore not to de-politicize but rather bring these groups into the political arena, as India did with Nepal's Maoists, ensuring their investment in the state by forcing them to take it over.In Pakistan, however, this task has been made difficult due not to the extent of militant support and firepower, but because institutions of the state appear themselves to have become a set of non-governmental actors like their enemies. In this sense Pakistan is not a failed state so much as the perverse culmination of a more familiar process of privatisation that affects us all.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan, the privatised state | Faisal Devji"},{"date": "2009-12-18T00:05:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There was jubilation among Pakistan's lawyers about the decision by the country's supreme court to strike down an amnesty which allowed the late Benazir Bhutto and her husband Asif Ali Zardari to return from exile. Lawyers called the decision a landmark judgment. One former president of the Lahore High Court Bar Association, Anwar Kamal, said that the supreme court had closed the door on corruption in the country for all time to come. We shall see, but on one thing we should be clear. This was not purely a judicial act. The judgment reeked of politics, designed to unseat an unpopular president halfway through his term.Any independent court worth its name would have struck down the national reconciliation ordinance (NRO), the selective amnesty that the former president Pervez Musharraf concocted in 2007 as part of a power-sharing deal with Ms Bhutto brokered by the US and Britain. But the supreme court went far beyond this. By turning the clock back to the date when the ordinance was issued, the court ordered that all cases and investigations frozen by the amnesty be revived.Knowing that Mr Zardari would be protected\u00a0by the immunity he gets from his position as president, the court ordered the government to inform the Swiss authorities that a case against him there may be reopened. The thinking behind this is that if the president\u00a0cannot be prosecuted in his own land, he should be prosecuted in another. This is designed to increase the pressure on him to resign. The court also ordered the government to sack prosecutors, and ordered the interior\u00a0minister\u00a0Rehman Malik to issue himself with an arrest warrant. A decision conducted in the name of good\u00a0governance was aimed\u00a0instead\u00a0at crippling the government.Who profits from this? Rightwing members of the senior judiciary; sections of the military and intelligence establishment who regard Mr Zardari as too pro-American and want to stop him cracking down on the Afghan Taliban; and the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif. His own previous conviction was not covered by the NRO, but he profited from Ms Bhutto's return to Pakistan by coming home from exile himself.Mr Sharif has called for midterm elections. The unpopular Mr Zardari and his ruling Pakistan People's party are far from blameless. They could have seen this situation coming. Yesterday they were forced to say they respected the judgment, but also insist the president would not resign. Politics and the law are entwined in Pakistan, but the jubilant lawyers should be wary of getting what they wish for. They could be preparing not just the ousting of the PPP from power, but the re-entry of the army into it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Supreme court chaos"},{"date": "2009-12-09T00:05:38Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With every passing month, Barack Obama is sinking deeper into a long-term regional conflict in Afghanistan. The latest ominous sign was a report in the New York Times that America had threatened to target two Taliban groups sheltering in Pakistan if the government in Islamabad refused to do the job itself. This was characterised as a bald warning, rather than an ultimatum, and it went like this: unless the Pakistan army moved against Afghan Taliban leaders in the frontier town of Quetta, and the Haqqani network in North Waziristan, America would do so with drones. They could even deploy US special forces on Pakistani soil.The last time US troops crossed the border to raid a village where militants were thought to be sheltering, there was such a political furore in Pakistan that the US was forced to promise never to use boots on ground again. Since then, relations between the US and Pakistan military have been patched up. A US drone killed Baitullah Mehsud, the leader of Tehrik-i-Taliban and Pakistan's public enemy number one, and the Pakistan army has conducted two large-scale operations against Taliban militants in Swat and South Waziristan, sustaining a bombardment of reprisals against civilian and military targets. The official line is that Pakistan is fighting its own war against militants, not a proxy one or America's. Pakistan's prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, whose authority is rising as his president's is falling, said that his \u00ad civilian government did not distinguish between one militant and the next. That is only half the\u00a0picture.The other half is that, for all its co-operation with the US, the Pakistan army and the military-run Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) believe that India remains the strategic threat. They will not easily abandon the tools they have created to combat it. Still less will they do so if they know that the US will start pulling troops out of Afghanistan in 18 months' time. It may no longer control the Afghan Taliban in the way that it did a decade ago, but the Pakistan army has shown a marked reluctance to target leading Talibs in the Quetta Shura, with whom historically they have had no quarrel. On the one hand, the US demand is unsurprising. If thousands of extra US troops are to be sent to shore up Helmand, it makes no military sense to keep Baluchistan \u2013 on the other side of the border \u2013 a no-fire zone. But on the other hand, the threat of US action in Baluchistan represents a dangerous escalation. Mr Obama is demanding no less than that the Pakistan army reverse a policy it has pursued for decades in the name of a war it does not believe in.There are other factors which might give the US military pause for thought. First, Baluchistan has its own insurgency, although the ethnic Baluchs are largely secular and have little truck with militants in the frontier zone. Second, it borders Iran, which has had its own history with Baluch separatism. A Baluch militia recently raided the Iranian city of Pishin, killing senior figures in the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. A group of 11 Iranian agents were intercepted a week later in Pakistan, and later released. But the incident was a reminder that this border is not peaceful. Third, the drones that the US is threatening to deploy fly from a desert strip in Baluchistan itself. If the Pakistan army wanted to stop US drones, all it would have to do is close the airfield down.For all these reasons, we are unlikely to see large-scale unilateral US action in Baluchistan. But the threat of cross-border raids highlights the dilemmas of the front-door approach. Because unless the US tackles the central cause of regional instability \u2013 the unfinished conflict between Pakistan and India over Kashmir \u2013 an Af-Pak policy makes little sense. It has to include India as well. Only Pakistan and India can jointly ensure a lasting peace in Afghanistan. But this is not the course on which America is currently engaged.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "US military", "Barack Obama", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Dangerous escalation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T15:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Until recently, Pakistan's most important internal threat was thought to be ethnic or regional, with \"separatist\" movements in Baluchistan, Sind or the North-West Frontier Province suspected of receiving support from neighbouring countries and crushed ruthlessly. After all, it was this kind of politics that had led to the disintegration of the country in the early 70s with the secession of East Pakistan and the birth of Bangladesh.Unless they were Shia, however, and thus seen as proxies of Iran, religious forms of protest and even militancy were widely held to pose only a local and certainly not an existential threat for the country. Indeed it is common to think of such groups as clients if not creatures of the state, or at least of some faction within its army and secret service, which are said to use their militants against Pakistan's domestic and international enemies in covert operations.In the last two years, however, and as a direct result of the \"war on terror\", there have been a series of unprecedented attacks against Pakistan's military as well as civilian leadership by groups fighting in the name of Islam. Commentators often talk about the state's loss of control over such outfits, or about their deployment by one faction of the state against another in a kind of turf war where each claims to be acting in the country's best interests. If true this would mean that the Pakistani state does not in fact exist and has devolved to provide some of the many contending powers that seek to control the country. And this should warn us that by analysing Pakistani politics in terms of who controls whom we end up with all parties being deprived of their integrity. What we need to do then is question all these categories, since the line between public and private has become blurred in them all.Nothing in Pakistan is what it appears to be. Controlled by the army, the state has no independent existence. The army in its turn is a corporation that owns vast tracts of land, industries and commercial enterprises, of which the military forms only one part. In this respect it is the true descendant of its ancestor, the East India Company, whose mercenary soldiers were also rented out to powers across the region, as Pakistani forces are to Saudi Arabia or the US.Like Britain's Indian army, it is also not a national institution, being drawn mostly from a few districts in the Punjab and North-West Frontier Province. For their part, the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups no longer speak the language of Islamic revolution or an Islamic state, as had been the case among religious parties for many decades. Instead they behave like private companies or even NGOs, claiming to provide good governance and ethical lifestyles in areas that have been taken over from the state and transformed into militant versions of the model communities and special economic zones that also proliferate in the subcontinent.Pakistan's Muslim militants are developing into the analogues of Maoist rebels in India, who also take over certain areas and attack government forces there to provide an alternative but non-governmental form of order. Managing territories within a state without apparently wanting to form a new government suggests a privatised and non-political ideal of governance, one that both Indian Maoists and Pakistani militants seem to espouse. The task before both governments is therefore not to de-politicize but rather bring these groups into the political arena, as India did with Nepal's Maoists, ensuring their investment in the state by forcing them to take it over.In Pakistan, however, this task has been made difficult due not to the extent of militant support and firepower, but because institutions of the state appear themselves to have become a set of non-governmental actors like their enemies. In this sense Pakistan is not a failed state so much as the perverse culmination of a more familiar process of privatisation that affects us all.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan, the privatised state | Faisal Devji"},{"date": "2009-12-05T18:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It may be more a matter of wits than weapons, but the battle for control of Pakistan's executive branch of government is as significant for the country as the war against the Taliban. Resolving this latest crisis, the fiercest tussle over the stewardship of the country since Pervez Musharraf was ousted from the presidency in August 2008, will determine the future of Pakistan's parliamentary democracy for many years to come.Although ostensibly centred on current President Asif Ali Zardari's immunity from a raft of court cases, the dispute has engulfed many of the most senior members of government.It all boils down to a national reconciliation ordinance drawn up by Musharraf in November 2007 when he was still president. As his popularity and legitimacy plummeted, the Bush administration pushed for a power sharing arrangement between the general and one of his great rivals, the slain former prime minister Benazir Bhutto who was living in exile between Dubai and London at the time. But a raft of court cases against Bhutto, her husband Asif Zardari, and many of their cohorts precluded an easy return to Pakistan to contest national elections. The NRO effectively gave them the immunity they desperately need to return to politics.Following victory in national elections last year, the Pakistan People's party, under Asif Zardari's stewardship following Bhutto's assassination in December 2007, formed a coalition government with a number of other parties and pressed for the NRO to be passed as law. But parliament and the supreme court conspired to scupper those plans, leaving the controversial amnesty to expire last Saturday, 28 November.As far as we know, 8,041 individuals were given immunity under the NRO. They include Hussain Haqqani, Pakistan's influential ambassador to the United States, and Rehman Malik, a key Zardari lieutenant and spearhead of the civilian administration's push against extremists. Pakistan's high commissioner to Britain, Wajid Shamsul Hassan, is also on the NRO list. So is the Britain-based head of the Muttahida Quami Movement, Altaf Hussain who, along with two of his deputies, faces more charges than any other individual on the list.The charges against the thousands on the list, alleging everything from corruption, abuse of authority and even murder, make for harrowing reading. And although the government claims it will not protect anyone from the court's findings, there can be no doubt that many of the charges are politically motivated. Virtually every prominent politician in Pakistan has faced or is facing a court case lodged by their foes.But in among the mudslinging and the uncertainty it has created, the move to refer the NRO to the courts is a powerful, if indirect endorsement for the rule of law and parliamentary democracy. The government, faced with a hostile mix of political opponents and opportunists, says it will abide by any court rulings against those on the NRO.A revitalised supreme court headed by Iftikhar Chaudhry, the fiercely independent chief justice who survived first Musharraf and then Zardari's attempt to remove him, is expected to rule on the legality of the NRO in the not too distant future. He has already set a supreme court bench to commence hearings against those named in the NRO from Monday 7 December.What the court eventually determines will also likely determine the fate of the present government.So long as he remains head of state, President Zardari will retain immunity from any prosecution. Desperate to remain in office, however, he has already ceded control of the country's nuclear arsenal to the prime minister. It is expected that he will also concede the powers to dismiss the national assembly and appoint military chiefs. That would be a welcome move as the prime minister is more answerable to the parliament than the president.Current prime minister Yusuf Raza Gilani has undoubtedly been the biggest winner in this saga. Although installed by Zardari to be a pliant prime minister, he has increasingly drifted away from his orbit. It is well known that he has courted the Sharif brothers, former prime minister Nawaz and Punjab chief minister Shahbaz, who control the largest opposition party and dominate politics in the most populous province of Punjab. If key members of the PPP-led government falls due to the NRO , Gilani, who was a member of Sharif's party until falling out of favour in the 1990s, could form government with them. To his distinct advantage, Gilani was not on the NRO list because the courts have already cleared him of corruption charges.The political wrangling certainly reduces Pakistan's capacity to deal effectively with the three largest crises plaguing the nation: the ongoing war with the Pakistan Taliban, the inability to match energy supplies with demand, and a weak, highly inflationary economy.With so many Pakistanis sceptical of a democratic process that historically has failed to deliver, however, now is the best opportunity to showcase the merits of Pakistan's fragile secular institutions.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The other battle for Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-12-18T00:05:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There was jubilation among Pakistan's lawyers about the decision by the country's supreme court to strike down an amnesty which allowed the late Benazir Bhutto and her husband Asif Ali Zardari to return from exile. Lawyers called the decision a landmark judgment. One former president of the Lahore High Court Bar Association, Anwar Kamal, said that the supreme court had closed the door on corruption in the country for all time to come. We shall see, but on one thing we should be clear. This was not purely a judicial act. The judgment reeked of politics, designed to unseat an unpopular president halfway through his term.Any independent court worth its name would have struck down the national reconciliation ordinance (NRO), the selective amnesty that the former president Pervez Musharraf concocted in 2007 as part of a power-sharing deal with Ms Bhutto brokered by the US and Britain. But the supreme court went far beyond this. By turning the clock back to the date when the ordinance was issued, the court ordered that all cases and investigations frozen by the amnesty be revived.Knowing that Mr Zardari would be protected\u00a0by the immunity he gets from his position as president, the court ordered the government to inform the Swiss authorities that a case against him there may be reopened. The thinking behind this is that if the president\u00a0cannot be prosecuted in his own land, he should be prosecuted in another. This is designed to increase the pressure on him to resign. The court also ordered the government to sack prosecutors, and ordered the interior\u00a0minister\u00a0Rehman Malik to issue himself with an arrest warrant. A decision conducted in the name of good\u00a0governance was aimed\u00a0instead\u00a0at crippling the government.Who profits from this? Rightwing members of the senior judiciary; sections of the military and intelligence establishment who regard Mr Zardari as too pro-American and want to stop him cracking down on the Afghan Taliban; and the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif. His own previous conviction was not covered by the NRO, but he profited from Ms Bhutto's return to Pakistan by coming home from exile himself.Mr Sharif has called for midterm elections. The unpopular Mr Zardari and his ruling Pakistan People's party are far from blameless. They could have seen this situation coming. Yesterday they were forced to say they respected the judgment, but also insist the president would not resign. Politics and the law are entwined in Pakistan, but the jubilant lawyers should be wary of getting what they wish for. They could be preparing not just the ousting of the PPP from power, but the re-entry of the army into it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Supreme court chaos"},{"date": "2009-12-09T00:05:38Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With every passing month, Barack Obama is sinking deeper into a long-term regional conflict in Afghanistan. The latest ominous sign was a report in the New York Times that America had threatened to target two Taliban groups sheltering in Pakistan if the government in Islamabad refused to do the job itself. This was characterised as a bald warning, rather than an ultimatum, and it went like this: unless the Pakistan army moved against Afghan Taliban leaders in the frontier town of Quetta, and the Haqqani network in North Waziristan, America would do so with drones. They could even deploy US special forces on Pakistani soil.The last time US troops crossed the border to raid a village where militants were thought to be sheltering, there was such a political furore in Pakistan that the US was forced to promise never to use boots on ground again. Since then, relations between the US and Pakistan military have been patched up. A US drone killed Baitullah Mehsud, the leader of Tehrik-i-Taliban and Pakistan's public enemy number one, and the Pakistan army has conducted two large-scale operations against Taliban militants in Swat and South Waziristan, sustaining a bombardment of reprisals against civilian and military targets. The official line is that Pakistan is fighting its own war against militants, not a proxy one or America's. Pakistan's prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, whose authority is rising as his president's is falling, said that his \u00ad civilian government did not distinguish between one militant and the next. That is only half the\u00a0picture.The other half is that, for all its co-operation with the US, the Pakistan army and the military-run Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) believe that India remains the strategic threat. They will not easily abandon the tools they have created to combat it. Still less will they do so if they know that the US will start pulling troops out of Afghanistan in 18 months' time. It may no longer control the Afghan Taliban in the way that it did a decade ago, but the Pakistan army has shown a marked reluctance to target leading Talibs in the Quetta Shura, with whom historically they have had no quarrel. On the one hand, the US demand is unsurprising. If thousands of extra US troops are to be sent to shore up Helmand, it makes no military sense to keep Baluchistan \u2013 on the other side of the border \u2013 a no-fire zone. But on the other hand, the threat of US action in Baluchistan represents a dangerous escalation. Mr Obama is demanding no less than that the Pakistan army reverse a policy it has pursued for decades in the name of a war it does not believe in.There are other factors which might give the US military pause for thought. First, Baluchistan has its own insurgency, although the ethnic Baluchs are largely secular and have little truck with militants in the frontier zone. Second, it borders Iran, which has had its own history with Baluch separatism. A Baluch militia recently raided the Iranian city of Pishin, killing senior figures in the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. A group of 11 Iranian agents were intercepted a week later in Pakistan, and later released. But the incident was a reminder that this border is not peaceful. Third, the drones that the US is threatening to deploy fly from a desert strip in Baluchistan itself. If the Pakistan army wanted to stop US drones, all it would have to do is close the airfield down.For all these reasons, we are unlikely to see large-scale unilateral US action in Baluchistan. But the threat of cross-border raids highlights the dilemmas of the front-door approach. Because unless the US tackles the central cause of regional instability \u2013 the unfinished conflict between Pakistan and India over Kashmir \u2013 an Af-Pak policy makes little sense. It has to include India as well. Only Pakistan and India can jointly ensure a lasting peace in Afghanistan. But this is not the course on which America is currently engaged.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "US military", "Barack Obama", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Dangerous escalation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T15:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Until recently, Pakistan's most important internal threat was thought to be ethnic or regional, with \"separatist\" movements in Baluchistan, Sind or the North-West Frontier Province suspected of receiving support from neighbouring countries and crushed ruthlessly. After all, it was this kind of politics that had led to the disintegration of the country in the early 70s with the secession of East Pakistan and the birth of Bangladesh.Unless they were Shia, however, and thus seen as proxies of Iran, religious forms of protest and even militancy were widely held to pose only a local and certainly not an existential threat for the country. Indeed it is common to think of such groups as clients if not creatures of the state, or at least of some faction within its army and secret service, which are said to use their militants against Pakistan's domestic and international enemies in covert operations.In the last two years, however, and as a direct result of the \"war on terror\", there have been a series of unprecedented attacks against Pakistan's military as well as civilian leadership by groups fighting in the name of Islam. Commentators often talk about the state's loss of control over such outfits, or about their deployment by one faction of the state against another in a kind of turf war where each claims to be acting in the country's best interests. If true this would mean that the Pakistani state does not in fact exist and has devolved to provide some of the many contending powers that seek to control the country. And this should warn us that by analysing Pakistani politics in terms of who controls whom we end up with all parties being deprived of their integrity. What we need to do then is question all these categories, since the line between public and private has become blurred in them all.Nothing in Pakistan is what it appears to be. Controlled by the army, the state has no independent existence. The army in its turn is a corporation that owns vast tracts of land, industries and commercial enterprises, of which the military forms only one part. In this respect it is the true descendant of its ancestor, the East India Company, whose mercenary soldiers were also rented out to powers across the region, as Pakistani forces are to Saudi Arabia or the US.Like Britain's Indian army, it is also not a national institution, being drawn mostly from a few districts in the Punjab and North-West Frontier Province. For their part, the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups no longer speak the language of Islamic revolution or an Islamic state, as had been the case among religious parties for many decades. Instead they behave like private companies or even NGOs, claiming to provide good governance and ethical lifestyles in areas that have been taken over from the state and transformed into militant versions of the model communities and special economic zones that also proliferate in the subcontinent.Pakistan's Muslim militants are developing into the analogues of Maoist rebels in India, who also take over certain areas and attack government forces there to provide an alternative but non-governmental form of order. Managing territories within a state without apparently wanting to form a new government suggests a privatised and non-political ideal of governance, one that both Indian Maoists and Pakistani militants seem to espouse. The task before both governments is therefore not to de-politicize but rather bring these groups into the political arena, as India did with Nepal's Maoists, ensuring their investment in the state by forcing them to take it over.In Pakistan, however, this task has been made difficult due not to the extent of militant support and firepower, but because institutions of the state appear themselves to have become a set of non-governmental actors like their enemies. In this sense Pakistan is not a failed state so much as the perverse culmination of a more familiar process of privatisation that affects us all.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan, the privatised state | Faisal Devji"},{"date": "2009-12-05T18:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It may be more a matter of wits than weapons, but the battle for control of Pakistan's executive branch of government is as significant for the country as the war against the Taliban. Resolving this latest crisis, the fiercest tussle over the stewardship of the country since Pervez Musharraf was ousted from the presidency in August 2008, will determine the future of Pakistan's parliamentary democracy for many years to come.Although ostensibly centred on current President Asif Ali Zardari's immunity from a raft of court cases, the dispute has engulfed many of the most senior members of government.It all boils down to a national reconciliation ordinance drawn up by Musharraf in November 2007 when he was still president. As his popularity and legitimacy plummeted, the Bush administration pushed for a power sharing arrangement between the general and one of his great rivals, the slain former prime minister Benazir Bhutto who was living in exile between Dubai and London at the time. But a raft of court cases against Bhutto, her husband Asif Zardari, and many of their cohorts precluded an easy return to Pakistan to contest national elections. The NRO effectively gave them the immunity they desperately need to return to politics.Following victory in national elections last year, the Pakistan People's party, under Asif Zardari's stewardship following Bhutto's assassination in December 2007, formed a coalition government with a number of other parties and pressed for the NRO to be passed as law. But parliament and the supreme court conspired to scupper those plans, leaving the controversial amnesty to expire last Saturday, 28 November.As far as we know, 8,041 individuals were given immunity under the NRO. They include Hussain Haqqani, Pakistan's influential ambassador to the United States, and Rehman Malik, a key Zardari lieutenant and spearhead of the civilian administration's push against extremists. Pakistan's high commissioner to Britain, Wajid Shamsul Hassan, is also on the NRO list. So is the Britain-based head of the Muttahida Quami Movement, Altaf Hussain who, along with two of his deputies, faces more charges than any other individual on the list.The charges against the thousands on the list, alleging everything from corruption, abuse of authority and even murder, make for harrowing reading. And although the government claims it will not protect anyone from the court's findings, there can be no doubt that many of the charges are politically motivated. Virtually every prominent politician in Pakistan has faced or is facing a court case lodged by their foes.But in among the mudslinging and the uncertainty it has created, the move to refer the NRO to the courts is a powerful, if indirect endorsement for the rule of law and parliamentary democracy. The government, faced with a hostile mix of political opponents and opportunists, says it will abide by any court rulings against those on the NRO.A revitalised supreme court headed by Iftikhar Chaudhry, the fiercely independent chief justice who survived first Musharraf and then Zardari's attempt to remove him, is expected to rule on the legality of the NRO in the not too distant future. He has already set a supreme court bench to commence hearings against those named in the NRO from Monday 7 December.What the court eventually determines will also likely determine the fate of the present government.So long as he remains head of state, President Zardari will retain immunity from any prosecution. Desperate to remain in office, however, he has already ceded control of the country's nuclear arsenal to the prime minister. It is expected that he will also concede the powers to dismiss the national assembly and appoint military chiefs. That would be a welcome move as the prime minister is more answerable to the parliament than the president.Current prime minister Yusuf Raza Gilani has undoubtedly been the biggest winner in this saga. Although installed by Zardari to be a pliant prime minister, he has increasingly drifted away from his orbit. It is well known that he has courted the Sharif brothers, former prime minister Nawaz and Punjab chief minister Shahbaz, who control the largest opposition party and dominate politics in the most populous province of Punjab. If key members of the PPP-led government falls due to the NRO , Gilani, who was a member of Sharif's party until falling out of favour in the 1990s, could form government with them. To his distinct advantage, Gilani was not on the NRO list because the courts have already cleared him of corruption charges.The political wrangling certainly reduces Pakistan's capacity to deal effectively with the three largest crises plaguing the nation: the ongoing war with the Pakistan Taliban, the inability to match energy supplies with demand, and a weak, highly inflationary economy.With so many Pakistanis sceptical of a democratic process that historically has failed to deliver, however, now is the best opportunity to showcase the merits of Pakistan's fragile secular institutions.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The other battle for Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-10-09T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan vowed to press ahead with an assault on the Taliban's mountain stronghold after a huge explosion killed 49 people and wounded more than 100 in a crowded Peshawar marketplace today.The blast ripped through the historic Khyber Bazaar, capping a week of Taliban violence that included attacks on Nato supply convoys and a suicide bombing at a UN office in Islamabad.Television footage showed the charred skeleton of a bus next to the wreckage of a vehicle that police said had been packed with explosives and artillery shells. It was not clear whether the blast was caused by a car bomb or a suicide attack.Nearby vehicles and buildings were in flames as emergency vehicles rushed to the scene, amid pools of blood and billowing clouds of tar-coloured smoke. \"It was like doomsday,\" one survivor told an AP reporter in the ward of an overwhelmed local hospital.Analysts saw the attack as a warning from the Taliban against a much-heralded offensive on their main base in South Waziristan, at the southern end of the tribal belt.Outside parliament, the interior minister, Rehman Malik, said the bombing left the government with \"no choice\" but to press ahead with its military offensive. \"One thing is clear, these hired assassins called Taliban are to be dealt with more severely,\" he told reporters. \"All roads are leading to South Waziristan.\"Malik added that the police had arrested the \"main handler\" behind Monday's attack on the UN food agency office in Islamabad. \"We have complete information about the persons involved in executing the terrorist plan,\" he said.For weeks, troops and heavy weapons have been massing on the edge of Waziristan, while warplanes have attacked selected Taliban targets. However a similar build-up at the gates of Waziristan after this summer's Swat offensive did not result in an assault. Army officials said it could be at least another week before this one starts.When it does, it is expected to focus on the tribal base of the Taliban leader Hakimullah Mehsud, who replaced Baitullah Mehsud after the latter was killed in a US drone strike last August. Hakimullah, a young lieutenant with a reputation for ruthlessness, this week vowed to exact vengeance on the US and Pakistani governments.Peshawar, the capital of North West Frontier province, has borne the brunt of Taliban violence in recent years. Today's was the bloodiest atrocity since a suicide bomber killed more than 50 people in a mosque during Friday prayers in Jamrud, on the city's outskirts. It also coincided with a session of the provincial assembly. Local television showed worried politicians emerging from the building, making calls on their mobile phones.The violence comes a background of growing political stability, as the military and civilian government clash over a proposed $7.5bn (\u00a34.7bn) US aid package that the army says imposes unfair conditions.On Thursday a meeting of top generals said expressed \"serious concern\" about the Kerry-Lugar bill, which has yet to be signed into law by US president Barack Obama. President Asif Ali Zardari's spokesman responded forcefully, saying the army had followed incorrect channels in making the statement.\"We will keep chasing these terrorists and this attack cannot deter our resolve,\" said the provincial information minister, Mian Iftikhar Hussain.The military has also become embroiled in an acrid political dispute with the civilian government over a proposed five-year, $7.5bn US aid package that the army says imposes unfair conditions.On Thursday a meeting of senior generals expressed \"serious concern\" about the Kerry-Lugar bill, which requires Pakistan to crack down on Islamists and nuclear proliferation. President Asif Ali Zardari's spokesman responded forcefully to the army statement, criticising the generals for their protest.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan market bomb kills dozens"},{"date": "2009-12-18T00:05:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There was jubilation among Pakistan's lawyers about the decision by the country's supreme court to strike down an amnesty which allowed the late Benazir Bhutto and her husband Asif Ali Zardari to return from exile. Lawyers called the decision a landmark judgment. One former president of the Lahore High Court Bar Association, Anwar Kamal, said that the supreme court had closed the door on corruption in the country for all time to come. We shall see, but on one thing we should be clear. This was not purely a judicial act. The judgment reeked of politics, designed to unseat an unpopular president halfway through his term.Any independent court worth its name would have struck down the national reconciliation ordinance (NRO), the selective amnesty that the former president Pervez Musharraf concocted in 2007 as part of a power-sharing deal with Ms Bhutto brokered by the US and Britain. But the supreme court went far beyond this. By turning the clock back to the date when the ordinance was issued, the court ordered that all cases and investigations frozen by the amnesty be revived.Knowing that Mr Zardari would be protected\u00a0by the immunity he gets from his position as president, the court ordered the government to inform the Swiss authorities that a case against him there may be reopened. The thinking behind this is that if the president\u00a0cannot be prosecuted in his own land, he should be prosecuted in another. This is designed to increase the pressure on him to resign. The court also ordered the government to sack prosecutors, and ordered the interior\u00a0minister\u00a0Rehman Malik to issue himself with an arrest warrant. A decision conducted in the name of good\u00a0governance was aimed\u00a0instead\u00a0at crippling the government.Who profits from this? Rightwing members of the senior judiciary; sections of the military and intelligence establishment who regard Mr Zardari as too pro-American and want to stop him cracking down on the Afghan Taliban; and the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif. His own previous conviction was not covered by the NRO, but he profited from Ms Bhutto's return to Pakistan by coming home from exile himself.Mr Sharif has called for midterm elections. The unpopular Mr Zardari and his ruling Pakistan People's party are far from blameless. They could have seen this situation coming. Yesterday they were forced to say they respected the judgment, but also insist the president would not resign. Politics and the law are entwined in Pakistan, but the jubilant lawyers should be wary of getting what they wish for. They could be preparing not just the ousting of the PPP from power, but the re-entry of the army into it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Supreme court chaos"},{"date": "2009-12-09T00:05:38Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With every passing month, Barack Obama is sinking deeper into a long-term regional conflict in Afghanistan. The latest ominous sign was a report in the New York Times that America had threatened to target two Taliban groups sheltering in Pakistan if the government in Islamabad refused to do the job itself. This was characterised as a bald warning, rather than an ultimatum, and it went like this: unless the Pakistan army moved against Afghan Taliban leaders in the frontier town of Quetta, and the Haqqani network in North Waziristan, America would do so with drones. They could even deploy US special forces on Pakistani soil.The last time US troops crossed the border to raid a village where militants were thought to be sheltering, there was such a political furore in Pakistan that the US was forced to promise never to use boots on ground again. Since then, relations between the US and Pakistan military have been patched up. A US drone killed Baitullah Mehsud, the leader of Tehrik-i-Taliban and Pakistan's public enemy number one, and the Pakistan army has conducted two large-scale operations against Taliban militants in Swat and South Waziristan, sustaining a bombardment of reprisals against civilian and military targets. The official line is that Pakistan is fighting its own war against militants, not a proxy one or America's. Pakistan's prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, whose authority is rising as his president's is falling, said that his \u00ad civilian government did not distinguish between one militant and the next. That is only half the\u00a0picture.The other half is that, for all its co-operation with the US, the Pakistan army and the military-run Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) believe that India remains the strategic threat. They will not easily abandon the tools they have created to combat it. Still less will they do so if they know that the US will start pulling troops out of Afghanistan in 18 months' time. It may no longer control the Afghan Taliban in the way that it did a decade ago, but the Pakistan army has shown a marked reluctance to target leading Talibs in the Quetta Shura, with whom historically they have had no quarrel. On the one hand, the US demand is unsurprising. If thousands of extra US troops are to be sent to shore up Helmand, it makes no military sense to keep Baluchistan \u2013 on the other side of the border \u2013 a no-fire zone. But on the other hand, the threat of US action in Baluchistan represents a dangerous escalation. Mr Obama is demanding no less than that the Pakistan army reverse a policy it has pursued for decades in the name of a war it does not believe in.There are other factors which might give the US military pause for thought. First, Baluchistan has its own insurgency, although the ethnic Baluchs are largely secular and have little truck with militants in the frontier zone. Second, it borders Iran, which has had its own history with Baluch separatism. A Baluch militia recently raided the Iranian city of Pishin, killing senior figures in the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. A group of 11 Iranian agents were intercepted a week later in Pakistan, and later released. But the incident was a reminder that this border is not peaceful. Third, the drones that the US is threatening to deploy fly from a desert strip in Baluchistan itself. If the Pakistan army wanted to stop US drones, all it would have to do is close the airfield down.For all these reasons, we are unlikely to see large-scale unilateral US action in Baluchistan. But the threat of cross-border raids highlights the dilemmas of the front-door approach. Because unless the US tackles the central cause of regional instability \u2013 the unfinished conflict between Pakistan and India over Kashmir \u2013 an Af-Pak policy makes little sense. It has to include India as well. Only Pakistan and India can jointly ensure a lasting peace in Afghanistan. But this is not the course on which America is currently engaged.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "US military", "Barack Obama", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Dangerous escalation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T15:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Until recently, Pakistan's most important internal threat was thought to be ethnic or regional, with \"separatist\" movements in Baluchistan, Sind or the North-West Frontier Province suspected of receiving support from neighbouring countries and crushed ruthlessly. After all, it was this kind of politics that had led to the disintegration of the country in the early 70s with the secession of East Pakistan and the birth of Bangladesh.Unless they were Shia, however, and thus seen as proxies of Iran, religious forms of protest and even militancy were widely held to pose only a local and certainly not an existential threat for the country. Indeed it is common to think of such groups as clients if not creatures of the state, or at least of some faction within its army and secret service, which are said to use their militants against Pakistan's domestic and international enemies in covert operations.In the last two years, however, and as a direct result of the \"war on terror\", there have been a series of unprecedented attacks against Pakistan's military as well as civilian leadership by groups fighting in the name of Islam. Commentators often talk about the state's loss of control over such outfits, or about their deployment by one faction of the state against another in a kind of turf war where each claims to be acting in the country's best interests. If true this would mean that the Pakistani state does not in fact exist and has devolved to provide some of the many contending powers that seek to control the country. And this should warn us that by analysing Pakistani politics in terms of who controls whom we end up with all parties being deprived of their integrity. What we need to do then is question all these categories, since the line between public and private has become blurred in them all.Nothing in Pakistan is what it appears to be. Controlled by the army, the state has no independent existence. The army in its turn is a corporation that owns vast tracts of land, industries and commercial enterprises, of which the military forms only one part. In this respect it is the true descendant of its ancestor, the East India Company, whose mercenary soldiers were also rented out to powers across the region, as Pakistani forces are to Saudi Arabia or the US.Like Britain's Indian army, it is also not a national institution, being drawn mostly from a few districts in the Punjab and North-West Frontier Province. For their part, the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups no longer speak the language of Islamic revolution or an Islamic state, as had been the case among religious parties for many decades. Instead they behave like private companies or even NGOs, claiming to provide good governance and ethical lifestyles in areas that have been taken over from the state and transformed into militant versions of the model communities and special economic zones that also proliferate in the subcontinent.Pakistan's Muslim militants are developing into the analogues of Maoist rebels in India, who also take over certain areas and attack government forces there to provide an alternative but non-governmental form of order. Managing territories within a state without apparently wanting to form a new government suggests a privatised and non-political ideal of governance, one that both Indian Maoists and Pakistani militants seem to espouse. The task before both governments is therefore not to de-politicize but rather bring these groups into the political arena, as India did with Nepal's Maoists, ensuring their investment in the state by forcing them to take it over.In Pakistan, however, this task has been made difficult due not to the extent of militant support and firepower, but because institutions of the state appear themselves to have become a set of non-governmental actors like their enemies. In this sense Pakistan is not a failed state so much as the perverse culmination of a more familiar process of privatisation that affects us all.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan, the privatised state | Faisal Devji"},{"date": "2009-12-05T18:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It may be more a matter of wits than weapons, but the battle for control of Pakistan's executive branch of government is as significant for the country as the war against the Taliban. Resolving this latest crisis, the fiercest tussle over the stewardship of the country since Pervez Musharraf was ousted from the presidency in August 2008, will determine the future of Pakistan's parliamentary democracy for many years to come.Although ostensibly centred on current President Asif Ali Zardari's immunity from a raft of court cases, the dispute has engulfed many of the most senior members of government.It all boils down to a national reconciliation ordinance drawn up by Musharraf in November 2007 when he was still president. As his popularity and legitimacy plummeted, the Bush administration pushed for a power sharing arrangement between the general and one of his great rivals, the slain former prime minister Benazir Bhutto who was living in exile between Dubai and London at the time. But a raft of court cases against Bhutto, her husband Asif Zardari, and many of their cohorts precluded an easy return to Pakistan to contest national elections. The NRO effectively gave them the immunity they desperately need to return to politics.Following victory in national elections last year, the Pakistan People's party, under Asif Zardari's stewardship following Bhutto's assassination in December 2007, formed a coalition government with a number of other parties and pressed for the NRO to be passed as law. But parliament and the supreme court conspired to scupper those plans, leaving the controversial amnesty to expire last Saturday, 28 November.As far as we know, 8,041 individuals were given immunity under the NRO. They include Hussain Haqqani, Pakistan's influential ambassador to the United States, and Rehman Malik, a key Zardari lieutenant and spearhead of the civilian administration's push against extremists. Pakistan's high commissioner to Britain, Wajid Shamsul Hassan, is also on the NRO list. So is the Britain-based head of the Muttahida Quami Movement, Altaf Hussain who, along with two of his deputies, faces more charges than any other individual on the list.The charges against the thousands on the list, alleging everything from corruption, abuse of authority and even murder, make for harrowing reading. And although the government claims it will not protect anyone from the court's findings, there can be no doubt that many of the charges are politically motivated. Virtually every prominent politician in Pakistan has faced or is facing a court case lodged by their foes.But in among the mudslinging and the uncertainty it has created, the move to refer the NRO to the courts is a powerful, if indirect endorsement for the rule of law and parliamentary democracy. The government, faced with a hostile mix of political opponents and opportunists, says it will abide by any court rulings against those on the NRO.A revitalised supreme court headed by Iftikhar Chaudhry, the fiercely independent chief justice who survived first Musharraf and then Zardari's attempt to remove him, is expected to rule on the legality of the NRO in the not too distant future. He has already set a supreme court bench to commence hearings against those named in the NRO from Monday 7 December.What the court eventually determines will also likely determine the fate of the present government.So long as he remains head of state, President Zardari will retain immunity from any prosecution. Desperate to remain in office, however, he has already ceded control of the country's nuclear arsenal to the prime minister. It is expected that he will also concede the powers to dismiss the national assembly and appoint military chiefs. That would be a welcome move as the prime minister is more answerable to the parliament than the president.Current prime minister Yusuf Raza Gilani has undoubtedly been the biggest winner in this saga. Although installed by Zardari to be a pliant prime minister, he has increasingly drifted away from his orbit. It is well known that he has courted the Sharif brothers, former prime minister Nawaz and Punjab chief minister Shahbaz, who control the largest opposition party and dominate politics in the most populous province of Punjab. If key members of the PPP-led government falls due to the NRO , Gilani, who was a member of Sharif's party until falling out of favour in the 1990s, could form government with them. To his distinct advantage, Gilani was not on the NRO list because the courts have already cleared him of corruption charges.The political wrangling certainly reduces Pakistan's capacity to deal effectively with the three largest crises plaguing the nation: the ongoing war with the Pakistan Taliban, the inability to match energy supplies with demand, and a weak, highly inflationary economy.With so many Pakistanis sceptical of a democratic process that historically has failed to deliver, however, now is the best opportunity to showcase the merits of Pakistan's fragile secular institutions.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The other battle for Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-10-09T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan vowed to press ahead with an assault on the Taliban's mountain stronghold after a huge explosion killed 49 people and wounded more than 100 in a crowded Peshawar marketplace today.The blast ripped through the historic Khyber Bazaar, capping a week of Taliban violence that included attacks on Nato supply convoys and a suicide bombing at a UN office in Islamabad.Television footage showed the charred skeleton of a bus next to the wreckage of a vehicle that police said had been packed with explosives and artillery shells. It was not clear whether the blast was caused by a car bomb or a suicide attack.Nearby vehicles and buildings were in flames as emergency vehicles rushed to the scene, amid pools of blood and billowing clouds of tar-coloured smoke. \"It was like doomsday,\" one survivor told an AP reporter in the ward of an overwhelmed local hospital.Analysts saw the attack as a warning from the Taliban against a much-heralded offensive on their main base in South Waziristan, at the southern end of the tribal belt.Outside parliament, the interior minister, Rehman Malik, said the bombing left the government with \"no choice\" but to press ahead with its military offensive. \"One thing is clear, these hired assassins called Taliban are to be dealt with more severely,\" he told reporters. \"All roads are leading to South Waziristan.\"Malik added that the police had arrested the \"main handler\" behind Monday's attack on the UN food agency office in Islamabad. \"We have complete information about the persons involved in executing the terrorist plan,\" he said.For weeks, troops and heavy weapons have been massing on the edge of Waziristan, while warplanes have attacked selected Taliban targets. However a similar build-up at the gates of Waziristan after this summer's Swat offensive did not result in an assault. Army officials said it could be at least another week before this one starts.When it does, it is expected to focus on the tribal base of the Taliban leader Hakimullah Mehsud, who replaced Baitullah Mehsud after the latter was killed in a US drone strike last August. Hakimullah, a young lieutenant with a reputation for ruthlessness, this week vowed to exact vengeance on the US and Pakistani governments.Peshawar, the capital of North West Frontier province, has borne the brunt of Taliban violence in recent years. Today's was the bloodiest atrocity since a suicide bomber killed more than 50 people in a mosque during Friday prayers in Jamrud, on the city's outskirts. It also coincided with a session of the provincial assembly. Local television showed worried politicians emerging from the building, making calls on their mobile phones.The violence comes a background of growing political stability, as the military and civilian government clash over a proposed $7.5bn (\u00a34.7bn) US aid package that the army says imposes unfair conditions.On Thursday a meeting of top generals said expressed \"serious concern\" about the Kerry-Lugar bill, which has yet to be signed into law by US president Barack Obama. President Asif Ali Zardari's spokesman responded forcefully, saying the army had followed incorrect channels in making the statement.\"We will keep chasing these terrorists and this attack cannot deter our resolve,\" said the provincial information minister, Mian Iftikhar Hussain.The military has also become embroiled in an acrid political dispute with the civilian government over a proposed five-year, $7.5bn US aid package that the army says imposes unfair conditions.On Thursday a meeting of senior generals expressed \"serious concern\" about the Kerry-Lugar bill, which requires Pakistan to crack down on Islamists and nuclear proliferation. President Asif Ali Zardari's spokesman responded forcefully to the army statement, criticising the generals for their protest.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan market bomb kills dozens"},{"date": "2009-12-10T20:08:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Five American Muslims have been arrested in Pakistan on suspicion of making contact with an al-Qaida-funded militant group and were believed to be on their way to Afghanistan to fight with the Taliban against US forces.The five, aged 19 to 25, formed a close-knit social group in the Alexandria area of Virginia, half an hour's drive from Washington.They all disappeared from their family homes in late November and it appears that the alarm was first sounded by relatives concerned about what they were going to do.Family members had initially thought the men were travelling within the US. But suspicions were aroused when one of them phoned home saying he was in the US, while the caller ID suggested he was overseas.The families contacted their imams, who in turn contacted the Washington-based Council on American-Islamic Relations, which alerted the FBI that same day.The five men are reported to have left behind an 11-minute video featuring war scenes and statements about the defence of Muslims that has been interpreted by some as a farewell message.The council would not comment on the video, but it has launched a campaign to try to dissuade young Muslims who might be attracted to extremist views and to counter distortions of the teachings of the Koran by extremists.The arrests, which took place yesterday, come at a time of mounting anxiety in the US about the incidence of American citizens engaging in jihadist activities \u2013 a phenomenon of \"homegrown\" terrorism that has previously been considered rare in the country.Investigations are continuing into the Fort Hood shooting on 5 November in which an American-born Muslim with some contact with radical Islam killed 13 people, and yesterdayon Wednesday a man from Chicago, David Headley, pleaded not guilty to charges that he helped last year's attack on Mumbai.Ibrahim Hooper, a spokesman for the council, mindful of how sensitive relations with the Muslim community are in the US at present, said: \"I think the main point is the Muslim community took the lead in taking this to the law enforcement agencies, and that is a good sign.Nihad Awad, the council's executive director, said: \"We understand, unfortunately, this incident will be exploited by the cottage industry of Muslim bashers to try to marginalise Muslims in America.\"The five Americans being held were identified in Pakistan as Ramy Zamzam, Eman Yasir, Waqar Hasan, Ahmad A Mini and Umer Farooq. All are US citizens: two were born in Pakistan, one is of Yemeni origin and another of Egyptian origin.Pakistani authorities believe the men made contact with extremists via YouTube. They are said to have arrived in Karachi on 30 November and made approaches to militant groups there and in Lahore but to have been rebuffed, apparently because they lacked references.They then moved to Sarghoda, in the north of Punjab province, where they were in touch with representatives of Jaish-e-Muhammad, a militant group \u2013 believed to be funded by Osama bin Laden \u2013 whose members have been involved in several bombings, and Jamaat-ud-Dawa, which the UN accuses of orchestrating the Mumbai attacks.According to the New York Times, the men stayed in the house of Farooq's uncle. His father, Khalid, was also at the house and was arrested.FBI investigators are in Sarghoda to question the five. The secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, confirmed that the US had access to the detainees, which she described as \"part of the usual outreach\" made in such cases by the US government.Barack Obama did not refer directly to the arrests today, but did say: \"We have to constantly be mindful that some of these twisted ideologies are available over the internet.\"In Oslo to accept the Nobel peace prize, he made a point of praising the \"extraordinary contributions of the Muslim-American community and how they have been woven into the fabric of our nation in a seamless fashion.\"FBI agents have already been in contact with associates and relatives of one of the five, Zamzam. He is a dental student at Howard University, Washington DC, who graduated earlier this year in biology and chemistry.Samirah Ali, president of the university's Muslim student group, said he had talked to the FBI last week about Zamzam, whom he had known for three years. Zamzam had never shown militant leanings. \"He's a very nice guy, very cordial, very friendly,\" Ali told Associated Press.One of Zamzam's younger brothers, interviewed by AP at the family's apartment in Alexandria, said: \"He's a good guy. He's a normal Joe.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Taliban", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Al-Qaida", "World news"], "title": "Five young American Muslims held in Pakistan"},{"date": "2009-12-18T00:05:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There was jubilation among Pakistan's lawyers about the decision by the country's supreme court to strike down an amnesty which allowed the late Benazir Bhutto and her husband Asif Ali Zardari to return from exile. Lawyers called the decision a landmark judgment. One former president of the Lahore High Court Bar Association, Anwar Kamal, said that the supreme court had closed the door on corruption in the country for all time to come. We shall see, but on one thing we should be clear. This was not purely a judicial act. The judgment reeked of politics, designed to unseat an unpopular president halfway through his term.Any independent court worth its name would have struck down the national reconciliation ordinance (NRO), the selective amnesty that the former president Pervez Musharraf concocted in 2007 as part of a power-sharing deal with Ms Bhutto brokered by the US and Britain. But the supreme court went far beyond this. By turning the clock back to the date when the ordinance was issued, the court ordered that all cases and investigations frozen by the amnesty be revived.Knowing that Mr Zardari would be protected\u00a0by the immunity he gets from his position as president, the court ordered the government to inform the Swiss authorities that a case against him there may be reopened. The thinking behind this is that if the president\u00a0cannot be prosecuted in his own land, he should be prosecuted in another. This is designed to increase the pressure on him to resign. The court also ordered the government to sack prosecutors, and ordered the interior\u00a0minister\u00a0Rehman Malik to issue himself with an arrest warrant. A decision conducted in the name of good\u00a0governance was aimed\u00a0instead\u00a0at crippling the government.Who profits from this? Rightwing members of the senior judiciary; sections of the military and intelligence establishment who regard Mr Zardari as too pro-American and want to stop him cracking down on the Afghan Taliban; and the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif. His own previous conviction was not covered by the NRO, but he profited from Ms Bhutto's return to Pakistan by coming home from exile himself.Mr Sharif has called for midterm elections. The unpopular Mr Zardari and his ruling Pakistan People's party are far from blameless. They could have seen this situation coming. Yesterday they were forced to say they respected the judgment, but also insist the president would not resign. Politics and the law are entwined in Pakistan, but the jubilant lawyers should be wary of getting what they wish for. They could be preparing not just the ousting of the PPP from power, but the re-entry of the army into it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Supreme court chaos"},{"date": "2009-12-09T00:05:38Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With every passing month, Barack Obama is sinking deeper into a long-term regional conflict in Afghanistan. The latest ominous sign was a report in the New York Times that America had threatened to target two Taliban groups sheltering in Pakistan if the government in Islamabad refused to do the job itself. This was characterised as a bald warning, rather than an ultimatum, and it went like this: unless the Pakistan army moved against Afghan Taliban leaders in the frontier town of Quetta, and the Haqqani network in North Waziristan, America would do so with drones. They could even deploy US special forces on Pakistani soil.The last time US troops crossed the border to raid a village where militants were thought to be sheltering, there was such a political furore in Pakistan that the US was forced to promise never to use boots on ground again. Since then, relations between the US and Pakistan military have been patched up. A US drone killed Baitullah Mehsud, the leader of Tehrik-i-Taliban and Pakistan's public enemy number one, and the Pakistan army has conducted two large-scale operations against Taliban militants in Swat and South Waziristan, sustaining a bombardment of reprisals against civilian and military targets. The official line is that Pakistan is fighting its own war against militants, not a proxy one or America's. Pakistan's prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, whose authority is rising as his president's is falling, said that his \u00ad civilian government did not distinguish between one militant and the next. That is only half the\u00a0picture.The other half is that, for all its co-operation with the US, the Pakistan army and the military-run Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) believe that India remains the strategic threat. They will not easily abandon the tools they have created to combat it. Still less will they do so if they know that the US will start pulling troops out of Afghanistan in 18 months' time. It may no longer control the Afghan Taliban in the way that it did a decade ago, but the Pakistan army has shown a marked reluctance to target leading Talibs in the Quetta Shura, with whom historically they have had no quarrel. On the one hand, the US demand is unsurprising. If thousands of extra US troops are to be sent to shore up Helmand, it makes no military sense to keep Baluchistan \u2013 on the other side of the border \u2013 a no-fire zone. But on the other hand, the threat of US action in Baluchistan represents a dangerous escalation. Mr Obama is demanding no less than that the Pakistan army reverse a policy it has pursued for decades in the name of a war it does not believe in.There are other factors which might give the US military pause for thought. First, Baluchistan has its own insurgency, although the ethnic Baluchs are largely secular and have little truck with militants in the frontier zone. Second, it borders Iran, which has had its own history with Baluch separatism. A Baluch militia recently raided the Iranian city of Pishin, killing senior figures in the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. A group of 11 Iranian agents were intercepted a week later in Pakistan, and later released. But the incident was a reminder that this border is not peaceful. Third, the drones that the US is threatening to deploy fly from a desert strip in Baluchistan itself. If the Pakistan army wanted to stop US drones, all it would have to do is close the airfield down.For all these reasons, we are unlikely to see large-scale unilateral US action in Baluchistan. But the threat of cross-border raids highlights the dilemmas of the front-door approach. Because unless the US tackles the central cause of regional instability \u2013 the unfinished conflict between Pakistan and India over Kashmir \u2013 an Af-Pak policy makes little sense. It has to include India as well. Only Pakistan and India can jointly ensure a lasting peace in Afghanistan. But this is not the course on which America is currently engaged.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "US military", "Barack Obama", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Dangerous escalation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T15:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Until recently, Pakistan's most important internal threat was thought to be ethnic or regional, with \"separatist\" movements in Baluchistan, Sind or the North-West Frontier Province suspected of receiving support from neighbouring countries and crushed ruthlessly. After all, it was this kind of politics that had led to the disintegration of the country in the early 70s with the secession of East Pakistan and the birth of Bangladesh.Unless they were Shia, however, and thus seen as proxies of Iran, religious forms of protest and even militancy were widely held to pose only a local and certainly not an existential threat for the country. Indeed it is common to think of such groups as clients if not creatures of the state, or at least of some faction within its army and secret service, which are said to use their militants against Pakistan's domestic and international enemies in covert operations.In the last two years, however, and as a direct result of the \"war on terror\", there have been a series of unprecedented attacks against Pakistan's military as well as civilian leadership by groups fighting in the name of Islam. Commentators often talk about the state's loss of control over such outfits, or about their deployment by one faction of the state against another in a kind of turf war where each claims to be acting in the country's best interests. If true this would mean that the Pakistani state does not in fact exist and has devolved to provide some of the many contending powers that seek to control the country. And this should warn us that by analysing Pakistani politics in terms of who controls whom we end up with all parties being deprived of their integrity. What we need to do then is question all these categories, since the line between public and private has become blurred in them all.Nothing in Pakistan is what it appears to be. Controlled by the army, the state has no independent existence. The army in its turn is a corporation that owns vast tracts of land, industries and commercial enterprises, of which the military forms only one part. In this respect it is the true descendant of its ancestor, the East India Company, whose mercenary soldiers were also rented out to powers across the region, as Pakistani forces are to Saudi Arabia or the US.Like Britain's Indian army, it is also not a national institution, being drawn mostly from a few districts in the Punjab and North-West Frontier Province. For their part, the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups no longer speak the language of Islamic revolution or an Islamic state, as had been the case among religious parties for many decades. Instead they behave like private companies or even NGOs, claiming to provide good governance and ethical lifestyles in areas that have been taken over from the state and transformed into militant versions of the model communities and special economic zones that also proliferate in the subcontinent.Pakistan's Muslim militants are developing into the analogues of Maoist rebels in India, who also take over certain areas and attack government forces there to provide an alternative but non-governmental form of order. Managing territories within a state without apparently wanting to form a new government suggests a privatised and non-political ideal of governance, one that both Indian Maoists and Pakistani militants seem to espouse. The task before both governments is therefore not to de-politicize but rather bring these groups into the political arena, as India did with Nepal's Maoists, ensuring their investment in the state by forcing them to take it over.In Pakistan, however, this task has been made difficult due not to the extent of militant support and firepower, but because institutions of the state appear themselves to have become a set of non-governmental actors like their enemies. In this sense Pakistan is not a failed state so much as the perverse culmination of a more familiar process of privatisation that affects us all.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan, the privatised state | Faisal Devji"},{"date": "2009-12-05T18:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It may be more a matter of wits than weapons, but the battle for control of Pakistan's executive branch of government is as significant for the country as the war against the Taliban. Resolving this latest crisis, the fiercest tussle over the stewardship of the country since Pervez Musharraf was ousted from the presidency in August 2008, will determine the future of Pakistan's parliamentary democracy for many years to come.Although ostensibly centred on current President Asif Ali Zardari's immunity from a raft of court cases, the dispute has engulfed many of the most senior members of government.It all boils down to a national reconciliation ordinance drawn up by Musharraf in November 2007 when he was still president. As his popularity and legitimacy plummeted, the Bush administration pushed for a power sharing arrangement between the general and one of his great rivals, the slain former prime minister Benazir Bhutto who was living in exile between Dubai and London at the time. But a raft of court cases against Bhutto, her husband Asif Zardari, and many of their cohorts precluded an easy return to Pakistan to contest national elections. The NRO effectively gave them the immunity they desperately need to return to politics.Following victory in national elections last year, the Pakistan People's party, under Asif Zardari's stewardship following Bhutto's assassination in December 2007, formed a coalition government with a number of other parties and pressed for the NRO to be passed as law. But parliament and the supreme court conspired to scupper those plans, leaving the controversial amnesty to expire last Saturday, 28 November.As far as we know, 8,041 individuals were given immunity under the NRO. They include Hussain Haqqani, Pakistan's influential ambassador to the United States, and Rehman Malik, a key Zardari lieutenant and spearhead of the civilian administration's push against extremists. Pakistan's high commissioner to Britain, Wajid Shamsul Hassan, is also on the NRO list. So is the Britain-based head of the Muttahida Quami Movement, Altaf Hussain who, along with two of his deputies, faces more charges than any other individual on the list.The charges against the thousands on the list, alleging everything from corruption, abuse of authority and even murder, make for harrowing reading. And although the government claims it will not protect anyone from the court's findings, there can be no doubt that many of the charges are politically motivated. Virtually every prominent politician in Pakistan has faced or is facing a court case lodged by their foes.But in among the mudslinging and the uncertainty it has created, the move to refer the NRO to the courts is a powerful, if indirect endorsement for the rule of law and parliamentary democracy. The government, faced with a hostile mix of political opponents and opportunists, says it will abide by any court rulings against those on the NRO.A revitalised supreme court headed by Iftikhar Chaudhry, the fiercely independent chief justice who survived first Musharraf and then Zardari's attempt to remove him, is expected to rule on the legality of the NRO in the not too distant future. He has already set a supreme court bench to commence hearings against those named in the NRO from Monday 7 December.What the court eventually determines will also likely determine the fate of the present government.So long as he remains head of state, President Zardari will retain immunity from any prosecution. Desperate to remain in office, however, he has already ceded control of the country's nuclear arsenal to the prime minister. It is expected that he will also concede the powers to dismiss the national assembly and appoint military chiefs. That would be a welcome move as the prime minister is more answerable to the parliament than the president.Current prime minister Yusuf Raza Gilani has undoubtedly been the biggest winner in this saga. Although installed by Zardari to be a pliant prime minister, he has increasingly drifted away from his orbit. It is well known that he has courted the Sharif brothers, former prime minister Nawaz and Punjab chief minister Shahbaz, who control the largest opposition party and dominate politics in the most populous province of Punjab. If key members of the PPP-led government falls due to the NRO , Gilani, who was a member of Sharif's party until falling out of favour in the 1990s, could form government with them. To his distinct advantage, Gilani was not on the NRO list because the courts have already cleared him of corruption charges.The political wrangling certainly reduces Pakistan's capacity to deal effectively with the three largest crises plaguing the nation: the ongoing war with the Pakistan Taliban, the inability to match energy supplies with demand, and a weak, highly inflationary economy.With so many Pakistanis sceptical of a democratic process that historically has failed to deliver, however, now is the best opportunity to showcase the merits of Pakistan's fragile secular institutions.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The other battle for Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-10-09T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan vowed to press ahead with an assault on the Taliban's mountain stronghold after a huge explosion killed 49 people and wounded more than 100 in a crowded Peshawar marketplace today.The blast ripped through the historic Khyber Bazaar, capping a week of Taliban violence that included attacks on Nato supply convoys and a suicide bombing at a UN office in Islamabad.Television footage showed the charred skeleton of a bus next to the wreckage of a vehicle that police said had been packed with explosives and artillery shells. It was not clear whether the blast was caused by a car bomb or a suicide attack.Nearby vehicles and buildings were in flames as emergency vehicles rushed to the scene, amid pools of blood and billowing clouds of tar-coloured smoke. \"It was like doomsday,\" one survivor told an AP reporter in the ward of an overwhelmed local hospital.Analysts saw the attack as a warning from the Taliban against a much-heralded offensive on their main base in South Waziristan, at the southern end of the tribal belt.Outside parliament, the interior minister, Rehman Malik, said the bombing left the government with \"no choice\" but to press ahead with its military offensive. \"One thing is clear, these hired assassins called Taliban are to be dealt with more severely,\" he told reporters. \"All roads are leading to South Waziristan.\"Malik added that the police had arrested the \"main handler\" behind Monday's attack on the UN food agency office in Islamabad. \"We have complete information about the persons involved in executing the terrorist plan,\" he said.For weeks, troops and heavy weapons have been massing on the edge of Waziristan, while warplanes have attacked selected Taliban targets. However a similar build-up at the gates of Waziristan after this summer's Swat offensive did not result in an assault. Army officials said it could be at least another week before this one starts.When it does, it is expected to focus on the tribal base of the Taliban leader Hakimullah Mehsud, who replaced Baitullah Mehsud after the latter was killed in a US drone strike last August. Hakimullah, a young lieutenant with a reputation for ruthlessness, this week vowed to exact vengeance on the US and Pakistani governments.Peshawar, the capital of North West Frontier province, has borne the brunt of Taliban violence in recent years. Today's was the bloodiest atrocity since a suicide bomber killed more than 50 people in a mosque during Friday prayers in Jamrud, on the city's outskirts. It also coincided with a session of the provincial assembly. Local television showed worried politicians emerging from the building, making calls on their mobile phones.The violence comes a background of growing political stability, as the military and civilian government clash over a proposed $7.5bn (\u00a34.7bn) US aid package that the army says imposes unfair conditions.On Thursday a meeting of top generals said expressed \"serious concern\" about the Kerry-Lugar bill, which has yet to be signed into law by US president Barack Obama. President Asif Ali Zardari's spokesman responded forcefully, saying the army had followed incorrect channels in making the statement.\"We will keep chasing these terrorists and this attack cannot deter our resolve,\" said the provincial information minister, Mian Iftikhar Hussain.The military has also become embroiled in an acrid political dispute with the civilian government over a proposed five-year, $7.5bn US aid package that the army says imposes unfair conditions.On Thursday a meeting of senior generals expressed \"serious concern\" about the Kerry-Lugar bill, which requires Pakistan to crack down on Islamists and nuclear proliferation. President Asif Ali Zardari's spokesman responded forcefully to the army statement, criticising the generals for their protest.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan market bomb kills dozens"},{"date": "2009-12-10T20:08:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Five American Muslims have been arrested in Pakistan on suspicion of making contact with an al-Qaida-funded militant group and were believed to be on their way to Afghanistan to fight with the Taliban against US forces.The five, aged 19 to 25, formed a close-knit social group in the Alexandria area of Virginia, half an hour's drive from Washington.They all disappeared from their family homes in late November and it appears that the alarm was first sounded by relatives concerned about what they were going to do.Family members had initially thought the men were travelling within the US. But suspicions were aroused when one of them phoned home saying he was in the US, while the caller ID suggested he was overseas.The families contacted their imams, who in turn contacted the Washington-based Council on American-Islamic Relations, which alerted the FBI that same day.The five men are reported to have left behind an 11-minute video featuring war scenes and statements about the defence of Muslims that has been interpreted by some as a farewell message.The council would not comment on the video, but it has launched a campaign to try to dissuade young Muslims who might be attracted to extremist views and to counter distortions of the teachings of the Koran by extremists.The arrests, which took place yesterday, come at a time of mounting anxiety in the US about the incidence of American citizens engaging in jihadist activities \u2013 a phenomenon of \"homegrown\" terrorism that has previously been considered rare in the country.Investigations are continuing into the Fort Hood shooting on 5 November in which an American-born Muslim with some contact with radical Islam killed 13 people, and yesterdayon Wednesday a man from Chicago, David Headley, pleaded not guilty to charges that he helped last year's attack on Mumbai.Ibrahim Hooper, a spokesman for the council, mindful of how sensitive relations with the Muslim community are in the US at present, said: \"I think the main point is the Muslim community took the lead in taking this to the law enforcement agencies, and that is a good sign.Nihad Awad, the council's executive director, said: \"We understand, unfortunately, this incident will be exploited by the cottage industry of Muslim bashers to try to marginalise Muslims in America.\"The five Americans being held were identified in Pakistan as Ramy Zamzam, Eman Yasir, Waqar Hasan, Ahmad A Mini and Umer Farooq. All are US citizens: two were born in Pakistan, one is of Yemeni origin and another of Egyptian origin.Pakistani authorities believe the men made contact with extremists via YouTube. They are said to have arrived in Karachi on 30 November and made approaches to militant groups there and in Lahore but to have been rebuffed, apparently because they lacked references.They then moved to Sarghoda, in the north of Punjab province, where they were in touch with representatives of Jaish-e-Muhammad, a militant group \u2013 believed to be funded by Osama bin Laden \u2013 whose members have been involved in several bombings, and Jamaat-ud-Dawa, which the UN accuses of orchestrating the Mumbai attacks.According to the New York Times, the men stayed in the house of Farooq's uncle. His father, Khalid, was also at the house and was arrested.FBI investigators are in Sarghoda to question the five. The secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, confirmed that the US had access to the detainees, which she described as \"part of the usual outreach\" made in such cases by the US government.Barack Obama did not refer directly to the arrests today, but did say: \"We have to constantly be mindful that some of these twisted ideologies are available over the internet.\"In Oslo to accept the Nobel peace prize, he made a point of praising the \"extraordinary contributions of the Muslim-American community and how they have been woven into the fabric of our nation in a seamless fashion.\"FBI agents have already been in contact with associates and relatives of one of the five, Zamzam. He is a dental student at Howard University, Washington DC, who graduated earlier this year in biology and chemistry.Samirah Ali, president of the university's Muslim student group, said he had talked to the FBI last week about Zamzam, whom he had known for three years. Zamzam had never shown militant leanings. \"He's a very nice guy, very cordial, very friendly,\" Ali told Associated Press.One of Zamzam's younger brothers, interviewed by AP at the family's apartment in Alexandria, said: \"He's a good guy. He's a normal Joe.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Taliban", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Al-Qaida", "World news"], "title": "Five young American Muslims held in Pakistan"},{"date": "2009-12-11T16:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There is more to President Obama's policy shift in central Asia than more boots in Afghanistan. For Pakistan it represents an escalation of US drone strikes in the tribal areas and continued pressure on its army to immediately engage the Taliban and al-Qaida despite the practical complexities of the task.The fundamental problem for Pakistan is that Obama's acceleration of the war against the Taliban has been calculated largely on the basis of domestic US political demands and not those of the region, let alone Pakistan. Already under intense pressure at home from the financial crisis and the unpopularity of the US presence in Afghanistan, Obama must deliver some semblance of victory before he bids for a second term as commander-in-chief in 2012.The strange paradox of US policy for \"AfPak\", however, is that the troop surge represents the storm before the calm. No matter what the rhetoric at West Point was, the message from the Obama administration is that the US will leave Afghanistan in the foreseeable future.According to the veteran journalist Saleem Shahzad, Pakistan's army has already approached key commanders in the pro-Afghan Taliban resistance to ensure that, in the event of a US withdrawal, Pakistan is viewed as a friendly Muslim nation. Not entirely coincidentally, last month the Afghan Taliban chief Mullah Omar rejected the latest call for peace talks from the president, Hamid Karzai. Well aware that time is on his side, Omar has consistently refused negotiations until all foreign armies have left Afghanistan.For Pakistan, this makes disarming the Afghan Taliban within its borders even less appealing than it already was. For starters, Pakistan security forces have had to extensively rely on pro-Afghan Taliban commanders in North and South Waziristan to capture the main sanctuaries of the Hakeemullah Mehsud-led Pakistani Taliban.Unlike its Afghan cousin, the Pakistan Taliban movement seeks to overthrow the Pakistan state. Because it is an existential threat to Pakistan, current operations are aimed at eliminating this branch of the Taliban.Once the boosted US-led force engages the Taliban and its allies in Afghanistan it will be difficult for Pakistan to retain the sensitive ceasefires that enable access to strategic regions of the tribal areas and ensures that the Afghan Taliban do not join Mehsud's insurgency in Pakistan. \"Pakistan cannot fight on all fronts [at once],\" explains Tariq Khan, inspector general of the Frontier Corp, the country's key paramilitary outfit in the tribal areas.Pakistan has been confronted with some sobering realities. Many of the Pakistan Taliban's fighters and key commanders like Mehsud have fled their hideouts and are still at large. The violence has escalated; almost every one of Pakistan's major cities has been rocked by devastating bombings that have claimed about 500 lives in two months, even though the Afghan Taliban has not been directly involved in the violence.The terrifying truth is that in the absence of social and political solutions, no amount of police sleuthing or security checkpoints will ever prevent a committed foe with many thousands of young suicide bombers from transforming the suburbs of Pakistan into a warzone. If the Afghan Taliban were to join the fray it would be an even bigger massacre.Despite this, Washington has continued to press Pakistan to escalate its ground offensives with apparent ignorance or reckless indifference to the consequences for Pakistan.According to media reports, the CIA has decided to expand drone strikes deeper into the tribal areas and the province of Baluchistan \u2013 a larger and more restive and remote region of Pakistan than the tribal areas. Any such expansion will no doubt greatly destabilise Pakistan as the insurgents push deeper into the country to avoid being hit and intense hostility to the drone strikes reaches fever pitch.When Pakistan recaptured the scenic Swat Valley from the Taliban between May and August, western capitals lauded its resolve to finally defeat extremism. As soon as that and other battles had been waged and won, however, Pakistan was publicly cajoled by Washington, and occasionally London, for not accelerating the war even further. For so many Pakistanis, whether members of the elite or not, it all feels like a giant game that Pakistan can never actually win.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan is losing this great game | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-12-18T00:05:07Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There was jubilation among Pakistan's lawyers about the decision by the country's supreme court to strike down an amnesty which allowed the late Benazir Bhutto and her husband Asif Ali Zardari to return from exile. Lawyers called the decision a landmark judgment. One former president of the Lahore High Court Bar Association, Anwar Kamal, said that the supreme court had closed the door on corruption in the country for all time to come. We shall see, but on one thing we should be clear. This was not purely a judicial act. The judgment reeked of politics, designed to unseat an unpopular president halfway through his term.Any independent court worth its name would have struck down the national reconciliation ordinance (NRO), the selective amnesty that the former president Pervez Musharraf concocted in 2007 as part of a power-sharing deal with Ms Bhutto brokered by the US and Britain. But the supreme court went far beyond this. By turning the clock back to the date when the ordinance was issued, the court ordered that all cases and investigations frozen by the amnesty be revived.Knowing that Mr Zardari would be protected\u00a0by the immunity he gets from his position as president, the court ordered the government to inform the Swiss authorities that a case against him there may be reopened. The thinking behind this is that if the president\u00a0cannot be prosecuted in his own land, he should be prosecuted in another. This is designed to increase the pressure on him to resign. The court also ordered the government to sack prosecutors, and ordered the interior\u00a0minister\u00a0Rehman Malik to issue himself with an arrest warrant. A decision conducted in the name of good\u00a0governance was aimed\u00a0instead\u00a0at crippling the government.Who profits from this? Rightwing members of the senior judiciary; sections of the military and intelligence establishment who regard Mr Zardari as too pro-American and want to stop him cracking down on the Afghan Taliban; and the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif. His own previous conviction was not covered by the NRO, but he profited from Ms Bhutto's return to Pakistan by coming home from exile himself.Mr Sharif has called for midterm elections. The unpopular Mr Zardari and his ruling Pakistan People's party are far from blameless. They could have seen this situation coming. Yesterday they were forced to say they respected the judgment, but also insist the president would not resign. Politics and the law are entwined in Pakistan, but the jubilant lawyers should be wary of getting what they wish for. They could be preparing not just the ousting of the PPP from power, but the re-entry of the army into it.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Supreme court chaos"},{"date": "2009-12-09T00:05:38Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With every passing month, Barack Obama is sinking deeper into a long-term regional conflict in Afghanistan. The latest ominous sign was a report in the New York Times that America had threatened to target two Taliban groups sheltering in Pakistan if the government in Islamabad refused to do the job itself. This was characterised as a bald warning, rather than an ultimatum, and it went like this: unless the Pakistan army moved against Afghan Taliban leaders in the frontier town of Quetta, and the Haqqani network in North Waziristan, America would do so with drones. They could even deploy US special forces on Pakistani soil.The last time US troops crossed the border to raid a village where militants were thought to be sheltering, there was such a political furore in Pakistan that the US was forced to promise never to use boots on ground again. Since then, relations between the US and Pakistan military have been patched up. A US drone killed Baitullah Mehsud, the leader of Tehrik-i-Taliban and Pakistan's public enemy number one, and the Pakistan army has conducted two large-scale operations against Taliban militants in Swat and South Waziristan, sustaining a bombardment of reprisals against civilian and military targets. The official line is that Pakistan is fighting its own war against militants, not a proxy one or America's. Pakistan's prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, whose authority is rising as his president's is falling, said that his \u00ad civilian government did not distinguish between one militant and the next. That is only half the\u00a0picture.The other half is that, for all its co-operation with the US, the Pakistan army and the military-run Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) believe that India remains the strategic threat. They will not easily abandon the tools they have created to combat it. Still less will they do so if they know that the US will start pulling troops out of Afghanistan in 18 months' time. It may no longer control the Afghan Taliban in the way that it did a decade ago, but the Pakistan army has shown a marked reluctance to target leading Talibs in the Quetta Shura, with whom historically they have had no quarrel. On the one hand, the US demand is unsurprising. If thousands of extra US troops are to be sent to shore up Helmand, it makes no military sense to keep Baluchistan \u2013 on the other side of the border \u2013 a no-fire zone. But on the other hand, the threat of US action in Baluchistan represents a dangerous escalation. Mr Obama is demanding no less than that the Pakistan army reverse a policy it has pursued for decades in the name of a war it does not believe in.There are other factors which might give the US military pause for thought. First, Baluchistan has its own insurgency, although the ethnic Baluchs are largely secular and have little truck with militants in the frontier zone. Second, it borders Iran, which has had its own history with Baluch separatism. A Baluch militia recently raided the Iranian city of Pishin, killing senior figures in the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. A group of 11 Iranian agents were intercepted a week later in Pakistan, and later released. But the incident was a reminder that this border is not peaceful. Third, the drones that the US is threatening to deploy fly from a desert strip in Baluchistan itself. If the Pakistan army wanted to stop US drones, all it would have to do is close the airfield down.For all these reasons, we are unlikely to see large-scale unilateral US action in Baluchistan. But the threat of cross-border raids highlights the dilemmas of the front-door approach. Because unless the US tackles the central cause of regional instability \u2013 the unfinished conflict between Pakistan and India over Kashmir \u2013 an Af-Pak policy makes little sense. It has to include India as well. Only Pakistan and India can jointly ensure a lasting peace in Afghanistan. But this is not the course on which America is currently engaged.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "India", "Taliban", "US military", "Barack Obama", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Dangerous escalation"},{"date": "2009-10-16T15:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Until recently, Pakistan's most important internal threat was thought to be ethnic or regional, with \"separatist\" movements in Baluchistan, Sind or the North-West Frontier Province suspected of receiving support from neighbouring countries and crushed ruthlessly. After all, it was this kind of politics that had led to the disintegration of the country in the early 70s with the secession of East Pakistan and the birth of Bangladesh.Unless they were Shia, however, and thus seen as proxies of Iran, religious forms of protest and even militancy were widely held to pose only a local and certainly not an existential threat for the country. Indeed it is common to think of such groups as clients if not creatures of the state, or at least of some faction within its army and secret service, which are said to use their militants against Pakistan's domestic and international enemies in covert operations.In the last two years, however, and as a direct result of the \"war on terror\", there have been a series of unprecedented attacks against Pakistan's military as well as civilian leadership by groups fighting in the name of Islam. Commentators often talk about the state's loss of control over such outfits, or about their deployment by one faction of the state against another in a kind of turf war where each claims to be acting in the country's best interests. If true this would mean that the Pakistani state does not in fact exist and has devolved to provide some of the many contending powers that seek to control the country. And this should warn us that by analysing Pakistani politics in terms of who controls whom we end up with all parties being deprived of their integrity. What we need to do then is question all these categories, since the line between public and private has become blurred in them all.Nothing in Pakistan is what it appears to be. Controlled by the army, the state has no independent existence. The army in its turn is a corporation that owns vast tracts of land, industries and commercial enterprises, of which the military forms only one part. In this respect it is the true descendant of its ancestor, the East India Company, whose mercenary soldiers were also rented out to powers across the region, as Pakistani forces are to Saudi Arabia or the US.Like Britain's Indian army, it is also not a national institution, being drawn mostly from a few districts in the Punjab and North-West Frontier Province. For their part, the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups no longer speak the language of Islamic revolution or an Islamic state, as had been the case among religious parties for many decades. Instead they behave like private companies or even NGOs, claiming to provide good governance and ethical lifestyles in areas that have been taken over from the state and transformed into militant versions of the model communities and special economic zones that also proliferate in the subcontinent.Pakistan's Muslim militants are developing into the analogues of Maoist rebels in India, who also take over certain areas and attack government forces there to provide an alternative but non-governmental form of order. Managing territories within a state without apparently wanting to form a new government suggests a privatised and non-political ideal of governance, one that both Indian Maoists and Pakistani militants seem to espouse. The task before both governments is therefore not to de-politicize but rather bring these groups into the political arena, as India did with Nepal's Maoists, ensuring their investment in the state by forcing them to take it over.In Pakistan, however, this task has been made difficult due not to the extent of militant support and firepower, but because institutions of the state appear themselves to have become a set of non-governmental actors like their enemies. In this sense Pakistan is not a failed state so much as the perverse culmination of a more familiar process of privatisation that affects us all.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan, the privatised state | Faisal Devji"},{"date": "2009-12-05T18:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It may be more a matter of wits than weapons, but the battle for control of Pakistan's executive branch of government is as significant for the country as the war against the Taliban. Resolving this latest crisis, the fiercest tussle over the stewardship of the country since Pervez Musharraf was ousted from the presidency in August 2008, will determine the future of Pakistan's parliamentary democracy for many years to come.Although ostensibly centred on current President Asif Ali Zardari's immunity from a raft of court cases, the dispute has engulfed many of the most senior members of government.It all boils down to a national reconciliation ordinance drawn up by Musharraf in November 2007 when he was still president. As his popularity and legitimacy plummeted, the Bush administration pushed for a power sharing arrangement between the general and one of his great rivals, the slain former prime minister Benazir Bhutto who was living in exile between Dubai and London at the time. But a raft of court cases against Bhutto, her husband Asif Zardari, and many of their cohorts precluded an easy return to Pakistan to contest national elections. The NRO effectively gave them the immunity they desperately need to return to politics.Following victory in national elections last year, the Pakistan People's party, under Asif Zardari's stewardship following Bhutto's assassination in December 2007, formed a coalition government with a number of other parties and pressed for the NRO to be passed as law. But parliament and the supreme court conspired to scupper those plans, leaving the controversial amnesty to expire last Saturday, 28 November.As far as we know, 8,041 individuals were given immunity under the NRO. They include Hussain Haqqani, Pakistan's influential ambassador to the United States, and Rehman Malik, a key Zardari lieutenant and spearhead of the civilian administration's push against extremists. Pakistan's high commissioner to Britain, Wajid Shamsul Hassan, is also on the NRO list. So is the Britain-based head of the Muttahida Quami Movement, Altaf Hussain who, along with two of his deputies, faces more charges than any other individual on the list.The charges against the thousands on the list, alleging everything from corruption, abuse of authority and even murder, make for harrowing reading. And although the government claims it will not protect anyone from the court's findings, there can be no doubt that many of the charges are politically motivated. Virtually every prominent politician in Pakistan has faced or is facing a court case lodged by their foes.But in among the mudslinging and the uncertainty it has created, the move to refer the NRO to the courts is a powerful, if indirect endorsement for the rule of law and parliamentary democracy. The government, faced with a hostile mix of political opponents and opportunists, says it will abide by any court rulings against those on the NRO.A revitalised supreme court headed by Iftikhar Chaudhry, the fiercely independent chief justice who survived first Musharraf and then Zardari's attempt to remove him, is expected to rule on the legality of the NRO in the not too distant future. He has already set a supreme court bench to commence hearings against those named in the NRO from Monday 7 December.What the court eventually determines will also likely determine the fate of the present government.So long as he remains head of state, President Zardari will retain immunity from any prosecution. Desperate to remain in office, however, he has already ceded control of the country's nuclear arsenal to the prime minister. It is expected that he will also concede the powers to dismiss the national assembly and appoint military chiefs. That would be a welcome move as the prime minister is more answerable to the parliament than the president.Current prime minister Yusuf Raza Gilani has undoubtedly been the biggest winner in this saga. Although installed by Zardari to be a pliant prime minister, he has increasingly drifted away from his orbit. It is well known that he has courted the Sharif brothers, former prime minister Nawaz and Punjab chief minister Shahbaz, who control the largest opposition party and dominate politics in the most populous province of Punjab. If key members of the PPP-led government falls due to the NRO , Gilani, who was a member of Sharif's party until falling out of favour in the 1990s, could form government with them. To his distinct advantage, Gilani was not on the NRO list because the courts have already cleared him of corruption charges.The political wrangling certainly reduces Pakistan's capacity to deal effectively with the three largest crises plaguing the nation: the ongoing war with the Pakistan Taliban, the inability to match energy supplies with demand, and a weak, highly inflationary economy.With so many Pakistanis sceptical of a democratic process that historically has failed to deliver, however, now is the best opportunity to showcase the merits of Pakistan's fragile secular institutions.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "The other battle for Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-10-09T08:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan vowed to press ahead with an assault on the Taliban's mountain stronghold after a huge explosion killed 49 people and wounded more than 100 in a crowded Peshawar marketplace today.The blast ripped through the historic Khyber Bazaar, capping a week of Taliban violence that included attacks on Nato supply convoys and a suicide bombing at a UN office in Islamabad.Television footage showed the charred skeleton of a bus next to the wreckage of a vehicle that police said had been packed with explosives and artillery shells. It was not clear whether the blast was caused by a car bomb or a suicide attack.Nearby vehicles and buildings were in flames as emergency vehicles rushed to the scene, amid pools of blood and billowing clouds of tar-coloured smoke. \"It was like doomsday,\" one survivor told an AP reporter in the ward of an overwhelmed local hospital.Analysts saw the attack as a warning from the Taliban against a much-heralded offensive on their main base in South Waziristan, at the southern end of the tribal belt.Outside parliament, the interior minister, Rehman Malik, said the bombing left the government with \"no choice\" but to press ahead with its military offensive. \"One thing is clear, these hired assassins called Taliban are to be dealt with more severely,\" he told reporters. \"All roads are leading to South Waziristan.\"Malik added that the police had arrested the \"main handler\" behind Monday's attack on the UN food agency office in Islamabad. \"We have complete information about the persons involved in executing the terrorist plan,\" he said.For weeks, troops and heavy weapons have been massing on the edge of Waziristan, while warplanes have attacked selected Taliban targets. However a similar build-up at the gates of Waziristan after this summer's Swat offensive did not result in an assault. Army officials said it could be at least another week before this one starts.When it does, it is expected to focus on the tribal base of the Taliban leader Hakimullah Mehsud, who replaced Baitullah Mehsud after the latter was killed in a US drone strike last August. Hakimullah, a young lieutenant with a reputation for ruthlessness, this week vowed to exact vengeance on the US and Pakistani governments.Peshawar, the capital of North West Frontier province, has borne the brunt of Taliban violence in recent years. Today's was the bloodiest atrocity since a suicide bomber killed more than 50 people in a mosque during Friday prayers in Jamrud, on the city's outskirts. It also coincided with a session of the provincial assembly. Local television showed worried politicians emerging from the building, making calls on their mobile phones.The violence comes a background of growing political stability, as the military and civilian government clash over a proposed $7.5bn (\u00a34.7bn) US aid package that the army says imposes unfair conditions.On Thursday a meeting of top generals said expressed \"serious concern\" about the Kerry-Lugar bill, which has yet to be signed into law by US president Barack Obama. President Asif Ali Zardari's spokesman responded forcefully, saying the army had followed incorrect channels in making the statement.\"We will keep chasing these terrorists and this attack cannot deter our resolve,\" said the provincial information minister, Mian Iftikhar Hussain.The military has also become embroiled in an acrid political dispute with the civilian government over a proposed five-year, $7.5bn US aid package that the army says imposes unfair conditions.On Thursday a meeting of senior generals expressed \"serious concern\" about the Kerry-Lugar bill, which requires Pakistan to crack down on Islamists and nuclear proliferation. President Asif Ali Zardari's spokesman responded forcefully to the army statement, criticising the generals for their protest.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan market bomb kills dozens"},{"date": "2009-12-10T20:08:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Five American Muslims have been arrested in Pakistan on suspicion of making contact with an al-Qaida-funded militant group and were believed to be on their way to Afghanistan to fight with the Taliban against US forces.The five, aged 19 to 25, formed a close-knit social group in the Alexandria area of Virginia, half an hour's drive from Washington.They all disappeared from their family homes in late November and it appears that the alarm was first sounded by relatives concerned about what they were going to do.Family members had initially thought the men were travelling within the US. But suspicions were aroused when one of them phoned home saying he was in the US, while the caller ID suggested he was overseas.The families contacted their imams, who in turn contacted the Washington-based Council on American-Islamic Relations, which alerted the FBI that same day.The five men are reported to have left behind an 11-minute video featuring war scenes and statements about the defence of Muslims that has been interpreted by some as a farewell message.The council would not comment on the video, but it has launched a campaign to try to dissuade young Muslims who might be attracted to extremist views and to counter distortions of the teachings of the Koran by extremists.The arrests, which took place yesterday, come at a time of mounting anxiety in the US about the incidence of American citizens engaging in jihadist activities \u2013 a phenomenon of \"homegrown\" terrorism that has previously been considered rare in the country.Investigations are continuing into the Fort Hood shooting on 5 November in which an American-born Muslim with some contact with radical Islam killed 13 people, and yesterdayon Wednesday a man from Chicago, David Headley, pleaded not guilty to charges that he helped last year's attack on Mumbai.Ibrahim Hooper, a spokesman for the council, mindful of how sensitive relations with the Muslim community are in the US at present, said: \"I think the main point is the Muslim community took the lead in taking this to the law enforcement agencies, and that is a good sign.Nihad Awad, the council's executive director, said: \"We understand, unfortunately, this incident will be exploited by the cottage industry of Muslim bashers to try to marginalise Muslims in America.\"The five Americans being held were identified in Pakistan as Ramy Zamzam, Eman Yasir, Waqar Hasan, Ahmad A Mini and Umer Farooq. All are US citizens: two were born in Pakistan, one is of Yemeni origin and another of Egyptian origin.Pakistani authorities believe the men made contact with extremists via YouTube. They are said to have arrived in Karachi on 30 November and made approaches to militant groups there and in Lahore but to have been rebuffed, apparently because they lacked references.They then moved to Sarghoda, in the north of Punjab province, where they were in touch with representatives of Jaish-e-Muhammad, a militant group \u2013 believed to be funded by Osama bin Laden \u2013 whose members have been involved in several bombings, and Jamaat-ud-Dawa, which the UN accuses of orchestrating the Mumbai attacks.According to the New York Times, the men stayed in the house of Farooq's uncle. His father, Khalid, was also at the house and was arrested.FBI investigators are in Sarghoda to question the five. The secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, confirmed that the US had access to the detainees, which she described as \"part of the usual outreach\" made in such cases by the US government.Barack Obama did not refer directly to the arrests today, but did say: \"We have to constantly be mindful that some of these twisted ideologies are available over the internet.\"In Oslo to accept the Nobel peace prize, he made a point of praising the \"extraordinary contributions of the Muslim-American community and how they have been woven into the fabric of our nation in a seamless fashion.\"FBI agents have already been in contact with associates and relatives of one of the five, Zamzam. He is a dental student at Howard University, Washington DC, who graduated earlier this year in biology and chemistry.Samirah Ali, president of the university's Muslim student group, said he had talked to the FBI last week about Zamzam, whom he had known for three years. Zamzam had never shown militant leanings. \"He's a very nice guy, very cordial, very friendly,\" Ali told Associated Press.One of Zamzam's younger brothers, interviewed by AP at the family's apartment in Alexandria, said: \"He's a good guy. He's a normal Joe.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Taliban", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Al-Qaida", "World news"], "title": "Five young American Muslims held in Pakistan"},{"date": "2009-12-11T16:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There is more to President Obama's policy shift in central Asia than more boots in Afghanistan. For Pakistan it represents an escalation of US drone strikes in the tribal areas and continued pressure on its army to immediately engage the Taliban and al-Qaida despite the practical complexities of the task.The fundamental problem for Pakistan is that Obama's acceleration of the war against the Taliban has been calculated largely on the basis of domestic US political demands and not those of the region, let alone Pakistan. Already under intense pressure at home from the financial crisis and the unpopularity of the US presence in Afghanistan, Obama must deliver some semblance of victory before he bids for a second term as commander-in-chief in 2012.The strange paradox of US policy for \"AfPak\", however, is that the troop surge represents the storm before the calm. No matter what the rhetoric at West Point was, the message from the Obama administration is that the US will leave Afghanistan in the foreseeable future.According to the veteran journalist Saleem Shahzad, Pakistan's army has already approached key commanders in the pro-Afghan Taliban resistance to ensure that, in the event of a US withdrawal, Pakistan is viewed as a friendly Muslim nation. Not entirely coincidentally, last month the Afghan Taliban chief Mullah Omar rejected the latest call for peace talks from the president, Hamid Karzai. Well aware that time is on his side, Omar has consistently refused negotiations until all foreign armies have left Afghanistan.For Pakistan, this makes disarming the Afghan Taliban within its borders even less appealing than it already was. For starters, Pakistan security forces have had to extensively rely on pro-Afghan Taliban commanders in North and South Waziristan to capture the main sanctuaries of the Hakeemullah Mehsud-led Pakistani Taliban.Unlike its Afghan cousin, the Pakistan Taliban movement seeks to overthrow the Pakistan state. Because it is an existential threat to Pakistan, current operations are aimed at eliminating this branch of the Taliban.Once the boosted US-led force engages the Taliban and its allies in Afghanistan it will be difficult for Pakistan to retain the sensitive ceasefires that enable access to strategic regions of the tribal areas and ensures that the Afghan Taliban do not join Mehsud's insurgency in Pakistan. \"Pakistan cannot fight on all fronts [at once],\" explains Tariq Khan, inspector general of the Frontier Corp, the country's key paramilitary outfit in the tribal areas.Pakistan has been confronted with some sobering realities. Many of the Pakistan Taliban's fighters and key commanders like Mehsud have fled their hideouts and are still at large. The violence has escalated; almost every one of Pakistan's major cities has been rocked by devastating bombings that have claimed about 500 lives in two months, even though the Afghan Taliban has not been directly involved in the violence.The terrifying truth is that in the absence of social and political solutions, no amount of police sleuthing or security checkpoints will ever prevent a committed foe with many thousands of young suicide bombers from transforming the suburbs of Pakistan into a warzone. If the Afghan Taliban were to join the fray it would be an even bigger massacre.Despite this, Washington has continued to press Pakistan to escalate its ground offensives with apparent ignorance or reckless indifference to the consequences for Pakistan.According to media reports, the CIA has decided to expand drone strikes deeper into the tribal areas and the province of Baluchistan \u2013 a larger and more restive and remote region of Pakistan than the tribal areas. Any such expansion will no doubt greatly destabilise Pakistan as the insurgents push deeper into the country to avoid being hit and intense hostility to the drone strikes reaches fever pitch.When Pakistan recaptured the scenic Swat Valley from the Taliban between May and August, western capitals lauded its resolve to finally defeat extremism. As soon as that and other battles had been waged and won, however, Pakistan was publicly cajoled by Washington, and occasionally London, for not accelerating the war even further. For so many Pakistanis, whether members of the elite or not, it all feels like a giant game that Pakistan can never actually win.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan is losing this great game | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2009-12-08T17:50:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Immensely problematic though Afghanistan has become, Pakistan is emerging as a far bigger, potentially more dangerous challenge to western security interests, officials and analysts in Kabul say. The west's central dilemma is how to obtain Islamabad's full support in \"degrading\" al-Qaida, Taliban and other militant Islamist groups on both sides of the Durand line \u2013 the British-designated de facto Afghan-Pakistani border \u2013 without fatally undermining the Pakistani government's legitimacy in the eyes of its own people.\"Pakistan is the big coming problem,\" one analyst here said. \"The US and Nato countries have to convince the Pakistanis that they are not going to cut and run in Afghanistan [as happened after Soviet troops withdrew in 1989 and again, arguably, after the Taliban regime was overthrown in 2001].\"Three-quarters of Pakistan's borders are contested, by the Iranians in the west, along the Durand line, by India in Kashmir, by China. Pakistan would prefer an unstable Afghanistan to a hostile one. It worries what India might do there. If we want their help, we have to be able to offer Pakistan geopolitical stability,\" the analyst said.Speaking before Barack Obama unveiled his revamped Af-Pak strategy last week, US officials described Pakistani co-operation as essential to achieving western objectives. \"We can't succeed [in Afghanistan] without Pakistan,\" one official said. \"And if you don't win in Afghanistan, then Pakistan will automatically be imperilled, and that will make Afghanistan look like child's play.\"Yet Obama's speech was notable for its vagueness about Pakistan's role. \"We will strengthen Pakistan's capacity to target those groups that threaten our countries, and have made it clear that we cannot tolerate a safe haven for terrorists,\" he said.Obama gave no new indications as to how this might be achieved, beyond the additional economic and development aid and intelligence assistance already offered, or what the US would do if its wishes were ignored.Washington is ostensibly worried that public admonitions or hectoring could backfire. But General James Jones, Obama's national security adviser, reportedly exhibited no such inhibitions during a private visit to Islamabad last month. Jones is said to have warned that if Pakistan did not deliver, the US might be impelled to use \"any means at its disposal\" to secure the border region. This implied a threatening escalation in a country that already feels its sovereignty is under assault from American drone attacks.The area in question, known historically as Pashtunistan, was deliberately divided by Henry Durand and the British in 1893. It is home to about 15 million Pashtuns on the Afghan side and 28 million on the Pakistan side. They do not see themselves as belonging to either state; nearly all the Taliban forces come from there. It is the quintessential \"ungoverned space\".Yet despite all this, western officials say Pakistani leaders, preoccupied with the strategic challenge posed by their old enemy, India, have still to make a \"strategic shift\" away from the Afghan Taliban, who it sponsored in the 1990s.In particular, tougher Pakistani action is sought against the so-called Quetta shura, the Taliban's ideological headquarters, and militant groups bent on provoking confrontation with India.\"For the Pakistanis, the Afghan Taliban are still an insurance policy. We have to persuade them that the Taliban are a threat, not an ally, and that the result of [the US-led surge] will be stable, friendly Afghanistan,\" one official said. Trying to provide such reassurance, Obama has offered to facilitate an India-Pakistan rapprochement, a demarche that has met with a deafening silence on both sides.One possible consequence, should the US over-reach, could be the collapse of President Asif Ali Zardari's weak and unpopular administration. Conspiracy theorists say this may be Washington's intention; that it may prefer to deal with the Pakistani military, as during the era of former strongman General Pervez Musharraf.Maleeha Lodhi, a Pakistani former diplomat and influential columnist, says frenetic western cajoling is fraught with risks for Pakistan, where anti-American sentiment is widespread and extremists are pursuing a daily campaign of terror attacks to destabilise the country.\"Intensified fighting in Afghanistan, far from diminishing the threat of more instability in Pakistan, will enhance it. The military escalation on Pakistan's border could produce a spillover of militants,\" Lodhi said. \"It will enhance the vulnerability of US-Nato ground supply routes \u2026 Protecting these supply lines will overstretch Pakistani forces at present engaged in quashing the Pakistani Taliban.\"The surge could also lead to an influx of more Afghan refugees. It could also provoke a spike in violent reprisals in Pakistan \u2026 It is therefore imperative for Islamabad to try to persuade the US to modify its strategy,\" she said.Trouble is, Obama, like Gordon Brown, is a man in a hurry with a war to win. One political shove too hard, one cross-border drone attack too many, or another Mumbai-style attack by Pakistani-based groups on an Indian target, and Pakistan could swiftly join the descent into chaos.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "US news", "World news"], "title": "No room for false moves in Pakistan | Simon Tisdall in Kabul"},{"date": "2010-01-28T20:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A series of massacres of peaceful protesters by Pakistani security forces look set to sink hopes of a settlement deal between the government in Islamabad and Baloch nationalists who are campaigning for self-rule. There are fears that the sinister, shadowy Pakistani military and intelligence agencies are behind these killings, in a deliberate attempt to sabotage the reconciliation package put forward by the government of President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani.On 15 January, at least two Baloch political activists were shot dead and four others seriously wounded after Pakistani security forces opened fire on a peaceful protest organised by the Baloch Students Organisation (BSO) in the Khuzdar district of Balochistan. The rally had been called to protest against the recent murder of Baloch citizens in Karachi and the launching of a new military crackdown in Pakistani annexed and occupied Balochistan.The shootings are the latest of many killings of Baloch protesters and nationalist leaders. They've been targeted because of their support for the six-decades-long campaign of resistance against Pakistan's invasion and subjugation of their homeland.In September last year, Pakistani forces opened fire on a public gathering at Tump High School in Balochistan, killing a 20-year-old political activist, Mukhtar Baloch, and wounding 27 others, including four women and a six-year-old child. Five members of the BSO were arrested at the scene and taken to unknown locations. Watch this mobile phone footage of the attack \u2013 the shooting begins just over four minutes into the film.A similar Pakistani military assault on a peaceful Baloch rally took place in January 2009 in Turbat. A month later at Dashte Goran the army attacked a wedding party, killing 13 people, including the bride, groom, six family members and the wedding officiator. A total of 21 people were injured \u2013 the majority of them women.Rasool Bux Mengal, joint secretary of the Baloch National Movement (BNM), was abducted from Uthal last August. His tortured dead body, slashed and covered in cigarette burns, was found hanging from a tree. The intention was clear: to terrorise and intimidate the Baloch people. Mengal was the second BNM leader murdered in the last year. In April 2009, the body of Ghulam Mohammad, chair of the BNM, was found partly decomposed in a vat of toxic chemicals.In October last year, Baloch medical students were beaten up and arrested by Pakistani forces in a raid on the Bolan Medical College. The same month, 11 innocent civilians, including women and children, were killed in the Dera Bugti district by Pakistan army bombardments.Little wonder then that Baloch nationalist leaders have rejected the latest peace and reconciliation package proposed by the government in Islamabad. They cite the ongoing military repression and the inadequate nature of the proposals.At first glance, the \"Rahe-i- Haqooq Balochistan\" deal doesn't seem unreasonable. It offers a cessation in military operations, a ban on the construction of new army garrisons (although existing ones would remain), the release of most (not all) political detainees and a payment of $1.4bn in gas royalties, spread over 12 years.Baloch nationalists say the offer does not give the people of Balochistan control over their own natural resources or a fair price for them. Moreover, of the 4,000 Baloch people who have been arrested and disappeared, only a handful have been released since the democratic civilian government of Prime Minister Gilani was elected in 2008.The torture of Baloch rights campaigners remains routine and widespread. Promises of de-militarisation are contradicted by continued military operations, attacks on civilian targets and by the building of more police and military garrisons in Balochistan, including a 62% increase in police stations and a 100% increase in paramilitary checkpoints.Baloch human rights groups report that the kidnapping and torture of peaceful, lawful Baloch activists continues unabated. Indeed, the Pakistani government itself has admitted that in 2009 at least 1,102 people were seized by the security forces in Balochistan and disappeared. In recent years, an estimated 80,000 Baloch people have been displaced by Pakistan's military attacks.These attacks have been aided and abetted by military supplies from the UK, including small arms, artillery, helicopter components and military communications equipment. The US has sold the Pakistani military billions in arms, including F-16 attack aircraft, and Bell and Cobra attack helicopters, which have been used against the people of Balochistan.Rejecting Islamabad's proposals, nationalist leaders such as Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri and Akhtar Mengal, leader of the Balochistan National Party and a former chief minister of Balochistan, argue that the deal would not ensure genuine autonomy and self-rule. They see it as a way of continuing the Pakistani colonisation of their homeland.Indeed, if the government in Islamabad has a genuine intention to negotiate a settlement, why has it taken nearly two years to put forward these proposals and why are they so inadequate and qualified?The 1973 constitution of Pakistan promised complete provincial autonomy for Balochistan within 10 years. It never happened. Democratically elected Baloch chief ministers who have tried to defend the interests of the people of Balochistan have been sacked by Islamabad. The current chief minister, Aslam Raisani, has limited authority and can be overruled at any time by the federal government and the military top brass if he steps out of line.Even if the government of Pakistan had good intentions, its options are limited. Whatever President Zardari and Prime Minister Gilani may want to happen in Balochistan, they are in office but not truly in power. They are the public face of a Pakistani state that is beholden to more powerful forces \u2013 the Pakistani military and intelligence services, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) and Military Intelligence (MI). Together with the army, these intelligence services are the real power in Pakistan. They are implicated in six decades of disappearances, torture, detention without trial and extra-judicial killings in Balochistan.The former dictator and general, Pervez Musharaff, may have been ousted from the presidency in 2008 but his cronies still hold many of the key levers of power, especially in the all-crucial military, security and intelligence agencies. They continue to call the shots and pull the strings, regardless of what the democratic, civilian government says and wants.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Pakistan the oppressor | Peter Tatchell"},{"date": "2010-01-28T20:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A series of massacres of peaceful protesters by Pakistani security forces look set to sink hopes of a settlement deal between the government in Islamabad and Baloch nationalists who are campaigning for self-rule. There are fears that the sinister, shadowy Pakistani military and intelligence agencies are behind these killings, in a deliberate attempt to sabotage the reconciliation package put forward by the government of President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani.On 15 January, at least two Baloch political activists were shot dead and four others seriously wounded after Pakistani security forces opened fire on a peaceful protest organised by the Baloch Students Organisation (BSO) in the Khuzdar district of Balochistan. The rally had been called to protest against the recent murder of Baloch citizens in Karachi and the launching of a new military crackdown in Pakistani annexed and occupied Balochistan.The shootings are the latest of many killings of Baloch protesters and nationalist leaders. They've been targeted because of their support for the six-decades-long campaign of resistance against Pakistan's invasion and subjugation of their homeland.In September last year, Pakistani forces opened fire on a public gathering at Tump High School in Balochistan, killing a 20-year-old political activist, Mukhtar Baloch, and wounding 27 others, including four women and a six-year-old child. Five members of the BSO were arrested at the scene and taken to unknown locations. Watch this mobile phone footage of the attack \u2013 the shooting begins just over four minutes into the film.A similar Pakistani military assault on a peaceful Baloch rally took place in January 2009 in Turbat. A month later at Dashte Goran the army attacked a wedding party, killing 13 people, including the bride, groom, six family members and the wedding officiator. A total of 21 people were injured \u2013 the majority of them women.Rasool Bux Mengal, joint secretary of the Baloch National Movement (BNM), was abducted from Uthal last August. His tortured dead body, slashed and covered in cigarette burns, was found hanging from a tree. The intention was clear: to terrorise and intimidate the Baloch people. Mengal was the second BNM leader murdered in the last year. In April 2009, the body of Ghulam Mohammad, chair of the BNM, was found partly decomposed in a vat of toxic chemicals.In October last year, Baloch medical students were beaten up and arrested by Pakistani forces in a raid on the Bolan Medical College. The same month, 11 innocent civilians, including women and children, were killed in the Dera Bugti district by Pakistan army bombardments.Little wonder then that Baloch nationalist leaders have rejected the latest peace and reconciliation package proposed by the government in Islamabad. They cite the ongoing military repression and the inadequate nature of the proposals.At first glance, the \"Rahe-i- Haqooq Balochistan\" deal doesn't seem unreasonable. It offers a cessation in military operations, a ban on the construction of new army garrisons (although existing ones would remain), the release of most (not all) political detainees and a payment of $1.4bn in gas royalties, spread over 12 years.Baloch nationalists say the offer does not give the people of Balochistan control over their own natural resources or a fair price for them. Moreover, of the 4,000 Baloch people who have been arrested and disappeared, only a handful have been released since the democratic civilian government of Prime Minister Gilani was elected in 2008.The torture of Baloch rights campaigners remains routine and widespread. Promises of de-militarisation are contradicted by continued military operations, attacks on civilian targets and by the building of more police and military garrisons in Balochistan, including a 62% increase in police stations and a 100% increase in paramilitary checkpoints.Baloch human rights groups report that the kidnapping and torture of peaceful, lawful Baloch activists continues unabated. Indeed, the Pakistani government itself has admitted that in 2009 at least 1,102 people were seized by the security forces in Balochistan and disappeared. In recent years, an estimated 80,000 Baloch people have been displaced by Pakistan's military attacks.These attacks have been aided and abetted by military supplies from the UK, including small arms, artillery, helicopter components and military communications equipment. The US has sold the Pakistani military billions in arms, including F-16 attack aircraft, and Bell and Cobra attack helicopters, which have been used against the people of Balochistan.Rejecting Islamabad's proposals, nationalist leaders such as Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri and Akhtar Mengal, leader of the Balochistan National Party and a former chief minister of Balochistan, argue that the deal would not ensure genuine autonomy and self-rule. They see it as a way of continuing the Pakistani colonisation of their homeland.Indeed, if the government in Islamabad has a genuine intention to negotiate a settlement, why has it taken nearly two years to put forward these proposals and why are they so inadequate and qualified?The 1973 constitution of Pakistan promised complete provincial autonomy for Balochistan within 10 years. It never happened. Democratically elected Baloch chief ministers who have tried to defend the interests of the people of Balochistan have been sacked by Islamabad. The current chief minister, Aslam Raisani, has limited authority and can be overruled at any time by the federal government and the military top brass if he steps out of line.Even if the government of Pakistan had good intentions, its options are limited. Whatever President Zardari and Prime Minister Gilani may want to happen in Balochistan, they are in office but not truly in power. They are the public face of a Pakistani state that is beholden to more powerful forces \u2013 the Pakistani military and intelligence services, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) and Military Intelligence (MI). Together with the army, these intelligence services are the real power in Pakistan. They are implicated in six decades of disappearances, torture, detention without trial and extra-judicial killings in Balochistan.The former dictator and general, Pervez Musharaff, may have been ousted from the presidency in 2008 but his cronies still hold many of the key levers of power, especially in the all-crucial military, security and intelligence agencies. They continue to call the shots and pull the strings, regardless of what the democratic, civilian government says and wants.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Pakistan the oppressor | Peter Tatchell"},{"date": "2010-02-03T16:25:40Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "To many Pakistanis the most shocking aspect of the latest Taliban bombing was not the death toll, or the injuries inflicted on survivors, but the question that it raised: what was a team of American soldiers doing in a tense corner of North West Frontier province?In a way, the attack tugged the veil from a multi-faceted military assistance programme that, while not secret, is rarely publicised \u2013 by either side.President Obama's public aid to \u00adPakistan is transparent: $1.5bn a year for the next five years, mainly to boost the civilian government. But behind the scenes the US is engaged in other ways. Over the past decade it has given over $12bn in cash directly to the \u00admilitary to subsidise the costs of fighting the Taliban and al-Qaida. The programme to train the Frontier Corps, which the killed \u00adsoldiers were involved with, is \u00adestimated to be worth $400m more over several years.Generously provisioned counter-narcotics programmes operate along the Afghan border, funding everything from wells to schools. In Islamabad military contractors \u2013 usually retired army personnel \u2013 are paid to advise the army, discreetly working out of suburban houses. All this is hugely sensitive. Public opinion in Pakistan is overwhelmingly hostile to American \"interference\".Last year a media furore erupted over the role of the contractor Blackwater, which vocal right-wing commentators believed was part of a covert plot to steal the country's nuclear weapons.The Taliban played on that fear yesterday with a spokesman describing the bomb as \"revenge for the blasts carried out by Blackwater in Pakistan\".The critics are backed by public opinion. A survey last October found that 80% of Pakistanis rejected American assistance in fighting the Taliban.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Barack Obama", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Obama's silent war shocks Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-01-28T20:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A series of massacres of peaceful protesters by Pakistani security forces look set to sink hopes of a settlement deal between the government in Islamabad and Baloch nationalists who are campaigning for self-rule. There are fears that the sinister, shadowy Pakistani military and intelligence agencies are behind these killings, in a deliberate attempt to sabotage the reconciliation package put forward by the government of President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani.On 15 January, at least two Baloch political activists were shot dead and four others seriously wounded after Pakistani security forces opened fire on a peaceful protest organised by the Baloch Students Organisation (BSO) in the Khuzdar district of Balochistan. The rally had been called to protest against the recent murder of Baloch citizens in Karachi and the launching of a new military crackdown in Pakistani annexed and occupied Balochistan.The shootings are the latest of many killings of Baloch protesters and nationalist leaders. They've been targeted because of their support for the six-decades-long campaign of resistance against Pakistan's invasion and subjugation of their homeland.In September last year, Pakistani forces opened fire on a public gathering at Tump High School in Balochistan, killing a 20-year-old political activist, Mukhtar Baloch, and wounding 27 others, including four women and a six-year-old child. Five members of the BSO were arrested at the scene and taken to unknown locations. Watch this mobile phone footage of the attack \u2013 the shooting begins just over four minutes into the film.A similar Pakistani military assault on a peaceful Baloch rally took place in January 2009 in Turbat. A month later at Dashte Goran the army attacked a wedding party, killing 13 people, including the bride, groom, six family members and the wedding officiator. A total of 21 people were injured \u2013 the majority of them women.Rasool Bux Mengal, joint secretary of the Baloch National Movement (BNM), was abducted from Uthal last August. His tortured dead body, slashed and covered in cigarette burns, was found hanging from a tree. The intention was clear: to terrorise and intimidate the Baloch people. Mengal was the second BNM leader murdered in the last year. In April 2009, the body of Ghulam Mohammad, chair of the BNM, was found partly decomposed in a vat of toxic chemicals.In October last year, Baloch medical students were beaten up and arrested by Pakistani forces in a raid on the Bolan Medical College. The same month, 11 innocent civilians, including women and children, were killed in the Dera Bugti district by Pakistan army bombardments.Little wonder then that Baloch nationalist leaders have rejected the latest peace and reconciliation package proposed by the government in Islamabad. They cite the ongoing military repression and the inadequate nature of the proposals.At first glance, the \"Rahe-i- Haqooq Balochistan\" deal doesn't seem unreasonable. It offers a cessation in military operations, a ban on the construction of new army garrisons (although existing ones would remain), the release of most (not all) political detainees and a payment of $1.4bn in gas royalties, spread over 12 years.Baloch nationalists say the offer does not give the people of Balochistan control over their own natural resources or a fair price for them. Moreover, of the 4,000 Baloch people who have been arrested and disappeared, only a handful have been released since the democratic civilian government of Prime Minister Gilani was elected in 2008.The torture of Baloch rights campaigners remains routine and widespread. Promises of de-militarisation are contradicted by continued military operations, attacks on civilian targets and by the building of more police and military garrisons in Balochistan, including a 62% increase in police stations and a 100% increase in paramilitary checkpoints.Baloch human rights groups report that the kidnapping and torture of peaceful, lawful Baloch activists continues unabated. Indeed, the Pakistani government itself has admitted that in 2009 at least 1,102 people were seized by the security forces in Balochistan and disappeared. In recent years, an estimated 80,000 Baloch people have been displaced by Pakistan's military attacks.These attacks have been aided and abetted by military supplies from the UK, including small arms, artillery, helicopter components and military communications equipment. The US has sold the Pakistani military billions in arms, including F-16 attack aircraft, and Bell and Cobra attack helicopters, which have been used against the people of Balochistan.Rejecting Islamabad's proposals, nationalist leaders such as Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri and Akhtar Mengal, leader of the Balochistan National Party and a former chief minister of Balochistan, argue that the deal would not ensure genuine autonomy and self-rule. They see it as a way of continuing the Pakistani colonisation of their homeland.Indeed, if the government in Islamabad has a genuine intention to negotiate a settlement, why has it taken nearly two years to put forward these proposals and why are they so inadequate and qualified?The 1973 constitution of Pakistan promised complete provincial autonomy for Balochistan within 10 years. It never happened. Democratically elected Baloch chief ministers who have tried to defend the interests of the people of Balochistan have been sacked by Islamabad. The current chief minister, Aslam Raisani, has limited authority and can be overruled at any time by the federal government and the military top brass if he steps out of line.Even if the government of Pakistan had good intentions, its options are limited. Whatever President Zardari and Prime Minister Gilani may want to happen in Balochistan, they are in office but not truly in power. They are the public face of a Pakistani state that is beholden to more powerful forces \u2013 the Pakistani military and intelligence services, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) and Military Intelligence (MI). Together with the army, these intelligence services are the real power in Pakistan. They are implicated in six decades of disappearances, torture, detention without trial and extra-judicial killings in Balochistan.The former dictator and general, Pervez Musharaff, may have been ousted from the presidency in 2008 but his cronies still hold many of the key levers of power, especially in the all-crucial military, security and intelligence agencies. They continue to call the shots and pull the strings, regardless of what the democratic, civilian government says and wants.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Pakistan the oppressor | Peter Tatchell"},{"date": "2010-02-03T16:25:40Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "To many Pakistanis the most shocking aspect of the latest Taliban bombing was not the death toll, or the injuries inflicted on survivors, but the question that it raised: what was a team of American soldiers doing in a tense corner of North West Frontier province?In a way, the attack tugged the veil from a multi-faceted military assistance programme that, while not secret, is rarely publicised \u2013 by either side.President Obama's public aid to \u00adPakistan is transparent: $1.5bn a year for the next five years, mainly to boost the civilian government. But behind the scenes the US is engaged in other ways. Over the past decade it has given over $12bn in cash directly to the \u00admilitary to subsidise the costs of fighting the Taliban and al-Qaida. The programme to train the Frontier Corps, which the killed \u00adsoldiers were involved with, is \u00adestimated to be worth $400m more over several years.Generously provisioned counter-narcotics programmes operate along the Afghan border, funding everything from wells to schools. In Islamabad military contractors \u2013 usually retired army personnel \u2013 are paid to advise the army, discreetly working out of suburban houses. All this is hugely sensitive. Public opinion in Pakistan is overwhelmingly hostile to American \"interference\".Last year a media furore erupted over the role of the contractor Blackwater, which vocal right-wing commentators believed was part of a covert plot to steal the country's nuclear weapons.The Taliban played on that fear yesterday with a spokesman describing the bomb as \"revenge for the blasts carried out by Blackwater in Pakistan\".The critics are backed by public opinion. A survey last October found that 80% of Pakistanis rejected American assistance in fighting the Taliban.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Barack Obama", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Obama's silent war shocks Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-02-04T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Yes, there is a secret war going on in Pakistan, and it is one George W Bush should have started nine years ago. After the US abandoned Afghanistan following Soviet withdrawal in 1989, Pakistan supported Islamist groups in a bid to secure a pro-Islamabad government in Kabul. When Bush went into Afghanistan in 2001 with no plan other than to kick out the Taliban, he also threw billions of dollars at Pakistan to help in the \"war on terror\".Islamabad, however, did nothing to root out Islamist radicals near the border with Afghanistan, nor did it spend the $12bn on developing governance. Instead, the Pakistani government bought equipment such as F-16s to use in a war against India. Why the Bush administration allowed this to happen by selling them the equipment is beyond imagination.It became pretty apparent a few years ago that it did not matter what Nato forces did in Afghanistan if the Taliban were allowed to operate freely in Pakistan. If the Quetta Shura \u2013 the Taliban command based in the Pakistani city of Quetta \u2013 and other Taliban bases in remote parts of Baluchistan, for example, were not eradicated, then sending more troops to Afghanistan was pointless. Withdrawing international forces from Afghanistan also won't solve the problem, because the Taliban forces would then just return to dig into Afghanistan to oust the current government. Given what the Taliban allowed to occur when they were last in power this is an unacceptable option for Washington, London and the rest of Nato. Furthermore, despite all the problems in Afghanistan, the current government is far more popular today with the average Afghan than were the Taliban.The problems are multiple. The civilian government is too weak to take on the Taliban on its own. Some segments of the Pakistani military actually support the Taliban. They see the Taliban as a way to ensure a friendly government in Kabul, necessary for strategic depth in a war against India. If the US was to reduce the power of the Taliban, the situation in Pakistan needed to be addressed. Assassination of Taliban leaders using drones began under Bush and the programme quite rightly accelerated under Obama. So far in 2010 there have been a dozen drone strikes \u2013 a large increase on the average for 2009, which was about one per week.The presence of US forces on the ground is rightly more contentious. But US forces, as well as British SAS forces, have been operating in Pakistan at various points for years. Initially this was without authorisation from the Pakistani government and often because of mistrust between US and Pakistan forces. But after this most recent attack both Washington and Islamabad have to grudgingly admit that they are working closely with each other. Islamabad has been loth to admit the extent to which US forces are helping the Pakistani military with counter-insurgency training, never mind the fact that US forces are at times engaging in operations within Pakistani territory. Given that 80% of Pakistanis reject American assistance in fighting the Taliban, it was perhaps a wise move to keep the issue quiet.Ultimately the \"secret war\" in Pakistan represents an alternative model to Bush's very public \"war on terror\". Bush used the war on terror as a rhetorical tool to terrorise Americans into supporting a massive, ineffective global war abroad while taking away their civil rights at home. Obama and his administration have articulated a much more nuanced policy that does not reduce every actor to a \"terrorist\". It does not utilise grand rhetoric that elevates \"terrorists\" to the principal threat facing the US. It pushes them into dark corners, where they should be. It attempts to distinguish between al-Qaida and Taliban. It seems to classify Taliban into different groups.It is a strategy for using American power effectively, rather than blundering into countries with no clear or definable objectives. Most importantly, it is a strategy that goes after the real problems rather than creating new ones, as was the case in Iraq. It is also one that is backed up with significant amounts of economic and development assistance \u2013 $1.5bn a year for Pakistan alone.I have no doubt that this \"secret war\" being waged by the US with the approval of Islamabad will not be popular with many. At the end of the day, however, the US president is elected to keep the American people safe and to expect an administration not to act in the hope that the situation will just fix itself is fantasy.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "US military", "Nato", "World news", "Drones (military)"], "title": "The secret war in Pakistan | Michael Williams"},{"date": "2010-01-28T20:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A series of massacres of peaceful protesters by Pakistani security forces look set to sink hopes of a settlement deal between the government in Islamabad and Baloch nationalists who are campaigning for self-rule. There are fears that the sinister, shadowy Pakistani military and intelligence agencies are behind these killings, in a deliberate attempt to sabotage the reconciliation package put forward by the government of President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani.On 15 January, at least two Baloch political activists were shot dead and four others seriously wounded after Pakistani security forces opened fire on a peaceful protest organised by the Baloch Students Organisation (BSO) in the Khuzdar district of Balochistan. The rally had been called to protest against the recent murder of Baloch citizens in Karachi and the launching of a new military crackdown in Pakistani annexed and occupied Balochistan.The shootings are the latest of many killings of Baloch protesters and nationalist leaders. They've been targeted because of their support for the six-decades-long campaign of resistance against Pakistan's invasion and subjugation of their homeland.In September last year, Pakistani forces opened fire on a public gathering at Tump High School in Balochistan, killing a 20-year-old political activist, Mukhtar Baloch, and wounding 27 others, including four women and a six-year-old child. Five members of the BSO were arrested at the scene and taken to unknown locations. Watch this mobile phone footage of the attack \u2013 the shooting begins just over four minutes into the film.A similar Pakistani military assault on a peaceful Baloch rally took place in January 2009 in Turbat. A month later at Dashte Goran the army attacked a wedding party, killing 13 people, including the bride, groom, six family members and the wedding officiator. A total of 21 people were injured \u2013 the majority of them women.Rasool Bux Mengal, joint secretary of the Baloch National Movement (BNM), was abducted from Uthal last August. His tortured dead body, slashed and covered in cigarette burns, was found hanging from a tree. The intention was clear: to terrorise and intimidate the Baloch people. Mengal was the second BNM leader murdered in the last year. In April 2009, the body of Ghulam Mohammad, chair of the BNM, was found partly decomposed in a vat of toxic chemicals.In October last year, Baloch medical students were beaten up and arrested by Pakistani forces in a raid on the Bolan Medical College. The same month, 11 innocent civilians, including women and children, were killed in the Dera Bugti district by Pakistan army bombardments.Little wonder then that Baloch nationalist leaders have rejected the latest peace and reconciliation package proposed by the government in Islamabad. They cite the ongoing military repression and the inadequate nature of the proposals.At first glance, the \"Rahe-i- Haqooq Balochistan\" deal doesn't seem unreasonable. It offers a cessation in military operations, a ban on the construction of new army garrisons (although existing ones would remain), the release of most (not all) political detainees and a payment of $1.4bn in gas royalties, spread over 12 years.Baloch nationalists say the offer does not give the people of Balochistan control over their own natural resources or a fair price for them. Moreover, of the 4,000 Baloch people who have been arrested and disappeared, only a handful have been released since the democratic civilian government of Prime Minister Gilani was elected in 2008.The torture of Baloch rights campaigners remains routine and widespread. Promises of de-militarisation are contradicted by continued military operations, attacks on civilian targets and by the building of more police and military garrisons in Balochistan, including a 62% increase in police stations and a 100% increase in paramilitary checkpoints.Baloch human rights groups report that the kidnapping and torture of peaceful, lawful Baloch activists continues unabated. Indeed, the Pakistani government itself has admitted that in 2009 at least 1,102 people were seized by the security forces in Balochistan and disappeared. In recent years, an estimated 80,000 Baloch people have been displaced by Pakistan's military attacks.These attacks have been aided and abetted by military supplies from the UK, including small arms, artillery, helicopter components and military communications equipment. The US has sold the Pakistani military billions in arms, including F-16 attack aircraft, and Bell and Cobra attack helicopters, which have been used against the people of Balochistan.Rejecting Islamabad's proposals, nationalist leaders such as Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri and Akhtar Mengal, leader of the Balochistan National Party and a former chief minister of Balochistan, argue that the deal would not ensure genuine autonomy and self-rule. They see it as a way of continuing the Pakistani colonisation of their homeland.Indeed, if the government in Islamabad has a genuine intention to negotiate a settlement, why has it taken nearly two years to put forward these proposals and why are they so inadequate and qualified?The 1973 constitution of Pakistan promised complete provincial autonomy for Balochistan within 10 years. It never happened. Democratically elected Baloch chief ministers who have tried to defend the interests of the people of Balochistan have been sacked by Islamabad. The current chief minister, Aslam Raisani, has limited authority and can be overruled at any time by the federal government and the military top brass if he steps out of line.Even if the government of Pakistan had good intentions, its options are limited. Whatever President Zardari and Prime Minister Gilani may want to happen in Balochistan, they are in office but not truly in power. They are the public face of a Pakistani state that is beholden to more powerful forces \u2013 the Pakistani military and intelligence services, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) and Military Intelligence (MI). Together with the army, these intelligence services are the real power in Pakistan. They are implicated in six decades of disappearances, torture, detention without trial and extra-judicial killings in Balochistan.The former dictator and general, Pervez Musharaff, may have been ousted from the presidency in 2008 but his cronies still hold many of the key levers of power, especially in the all-crucial military, security and intelligence agencies. They continue to call the shots and pull the strings, regardless of what the democratic, civilian government says and wants.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Pakistan the oppressor | Peter Tatchell"},{"date": "2010-02-03T16:25:40Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "To many Pakistanis the most shocking aspect of the latest Taliban bombing was not the death toll, or the injuries inflicted on survivors, but the question that it raised: what was a team of American soldiers doing in a tense corner of North West Frontier province?In a way, the attack tugged the veil from a multi-faceted military assistance programme that, while not secret, is rarely publicised \u2013 by either side.President Obama's public aid to \u00adPakistan is transparent: $1.5bn a year for the next five years, mainly to boost the civilian government. But behind the scenes the US is engaged in other ways. Over the past decade it has given over $12bn in cash directly to the \u00admilitary to subsidise the costs of fighting the Taliban and al-Qaida. The programme to train the Frontier Corps, which the killed \u00adsoldiers were involved with, is \u00adestimated to be worth $400m more over several years.Generously provisioned counter-narcotics programmes operate along the Afghan border, funding everything from wells to schools. In Islamabad military contractors \u2013 usually retired army personnel \u2013 are paid to advise the army, discreetly working out of suburban houses. All this is hugely sensitive. Public opinion in Pakistan is overwhelmingly hostile to American \"interference\".Last year a media furore erupted over the role of the contractor Blackwater, which vocal right-wing commentators believed was part of a covert plot to steal the country's nuclear weapons.The Taliban played on that fear yesterday with a spokesman describing the bomb as \"revenge for the blasts carried out by Blackwater in Pakistan\".The critics are backed by public opinion. A survey last October found that 80% of Pakistanis rejected American assistance in fighting the Taliban.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Barack Obama", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Obama's silent war shocks Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-02-04T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Yes, there is a secret war going on in Pakistan, and it is one George W Bush should have started nine years ago. After the US abandoned Afghanistan following Soviet withdrawal in 1989, Pakistan supported Islamist groups in a bid to secure a pro-Islamabad government in Kabul. When Bush went into Afghanistan in 2001 with no plan other than to kick out the Taliban, he also threw billions of dollars at Pakistan to help in the \"war on terror\".Islamabad, however, did nothing to root out Islamist radicals near the border with Afghanistan, nor did it spend the $12bn on developing governance. Instead, the Pakistani government bought equipment such as F-16s to use in a war against India. Why the Bush administration allowed this to happen by selling them the equipment is beyond imagination.It became pretty apparent a few years ago that it did not matter what Nato forces did in Afghanistan if the Taliban were allowed to operate freely in Pakistan. If the Quetta Shura \u2013 the Taliban command based in the Pakistani city of Quetta \u2013 and other Taliban bases in remote parts of Baluchistan, for example, were not eradicated, then sending more troops to Afghanistan was pointless. Withdrawing international forces from Afghanistan also won't solve the problem, because the Taliban forces would then just return to dig into Afghanistan to oust the current government. Given what the Taliban allowed to occur when they were last in power this is an unacceptable option for Washington, London and the rest of Nato. Furthermore, despite all the problems in Afghanistan, the current government is far more popular today with the average Afghan than were the Taliban.The problems are multiple. The civilian government is too weak to take on the Taliban on its own. Some segments of the Pakistani military actually support the Taliban. They see the Taliban as a way to ensure a friendly government in Kabul, necessary for strategic depth in a war against India. If the US was to reduce the power of the Taliban, the situation in Pakistan needed to be addressed. Assassination of Taliban leaders using drones began under Bush and the programme quite rightly accelerated under Obama. So far in 2010 there have been a dozen drone strikes \u2013 a large increase on the average for 2009, which was about one per week.The presence of US forces on the ground is rightly more contentious. But US forces, as well as British SAS forces, have been operating in Pakistan at various points for years. Initially this was without authorisation from the Pakistani government and often because of mistrust between US and Pakistan forces. But after this most recent attack both Washington and Islamabad have to grudgingly admit that they are working closely with each other. Islamabad has been loth to admit the extent to which US forces are helping the Pakistani military with counter-insurgency training, never mind the fact that US forces are at times engaging in operations within Pakistani territory. Given that 80% of Pakistanis reject American assistance in fighting the Taliban, it was perhaps a wise move to keep the issue quiet.Ultimately the \"secret war\" in Pakistan represents an alternative model to Bush's very public \"war on terror\". Bush used the war on terror as a rhetorical tool to terrorise Americans into supporting a massive, ineffective global war abroad while taking away their civil rights at home. Obama and his administration have articulated a much more nuanced policy that does not reduce every actor to a \"terrorist\". It does not utilise grand rhetoric that elevates \"terrorists\" to the principal threat facing the US. It pushes them into dark corners, where they should be. It attempts to distinguish between al-Qaida and Taliban. It seems to classify Taliban into different groups.It is a strategy for using American power effectively, rather than blundering into countries with no clear or definable objectives. Most importantly, it is a strategy that goes after the real problems rather than creating new ones, as was the case in Iraq. It is also one that is backed up with significant amounts of economic and development assistance \u2013 $1.5bn a year for Pakistan alone.I have no doubt that this \"secret war\" being waged by the US with the approval of Islamabad will not be popular with many. At the end of the day, however, the US president is elected to keep the American people safe and to expect an administration not to act in the hope that the situation will just fix itself is fantasy.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "US military", "Nato", "World news", "Drones (military)"], "title": "The secret war in Pakistan | Michael Williams"},{"date": "2010-03-25T16:35:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Like siblings locked in an endless rivalry, India and Pakistan have bickered for well over six decades. Transforming that rivalry into a mature, productive relationship will be difficult. But the consequences of continued animosity will be much worse.Two words punctuate the dangers of one of the world's longest running cold wars: nuclear weapons. For years both countries have militarised at a breathtaking pace based on a shared belief that the other may attack at any moment. Although the international community regularly calls for a scale-back of forces in the heavily fortified Indo-Pak border, many of the same nations, spearheaded by the United States and Russia, have been happy to sell billions of dollars' worth of deadly weaponry to India and Pakistan, escalating the risks and magnitude of any future conflict.Such hypocrisy is compounded by the fact that most citizens in the subcontinent remain desperately poor and deeply frustrated by generations of neglect and exploitation by elites to whom they are invisible except when it is politically expedient. Politicians opportunistically drum up jingoistic diatribes, complete with rent-a-crowd protesters, against our neighbours, who can be conveniently blamed for everything, but mostly terrorism. It doesn't help that India and Pakistan have gone to war on four occasions and have a history of supporting violent insurgencies in each other's territory.The sad irony is that we Desis remain bound at the cultural hip \u2013 be it our love for cricket, Bollywood and Pakistani tele-dramas, or class consciousness. Travel restrictions mean only a handful of us ever get to meet one another, creating a dangerous isolation that feeds racist stereotypes and turns dialogue into a political liability.Practicalities have meant that diplomatic back channels have remained open, even in the darkest of days that followed the murderous rampage through Mumbai in 2008 or the attack on the Indian parliament in 2001. But along with terrorism, regional pretensions have stymied conciliation. Both India and Pakistan have strived to be ever more incorporated into the American imperial project at the expense of the other. Both complain that the US favours the other at their expense. As you read this, a high-level Pakistani delegation is in Washington trying to convince the Obama administration to endorse a civilian nuclear energy programme akin to that it has already reached with India. For their part, Indian lobbyists argue that US reliance on Pakistan for its strategy in Afghanistan sidelines India's successful trade and development approach to stabilising that troubled country.If there are any silver linings amid the grey clouds of competition, it is the fact that normalising relations would be a boon for business in both countries. This is greatly hampered, however, by the lack of an effective business lobby in Pakistan \u2013 like everything else here, the economy is firmly dominated by generals. When Pakistan recently signed a gas pipeline deal with Iran, the world's second largest supplier, India was notable by its absence. India was originally part of the venture only to withdraw owing to its present frosty relationship with Pakistan.Much of that frost comes from the snowy peaks of Jammu and Kashmir, the Himalayan region India and Pakistan have fought three wars over. Resolving this dispute is pivotal to normalising relations, but observers on both sides of the border are unanimously pessimistic this will occur in the foreseeable future. It is \"not clear who can sell\" peace in Kashmir, says Dr Harsh Pant from Kings College. Only an Indian government led by the rightwing BJP, Pant argues, could accept the kind of overture from Pakistan that in 2007 nearly commenced concrete steps towards resolving the dispute because voters trust it more on national security issues. In opposition, however, the BJP has been happy to score political points against the current Congress-led government, claiming its overtures to Pakistan represent appeasement of the enemy. Civilian observers in Pakistan are sceptical their army would ever endorse any such move because the Kashmir issue is its raison d'\u00eatre.Civilian leaders in both countries, and particularly India's prime minister Manmohan Singh, have pushed for continued talks between officials from their elected civilian governments. \"Dialogue is the only way forward\" says Indian analyst Kanti Bajpai, because \"everything else India has tried\", including the threat of war following the 2001 Indian parliament attack, has failed to change the dynamic. The perennial problem is the subservience of Pakistan's civilian government to military planners in Rawalpindi. Sadly, Pakistan's president Asif Zardari has proved incapable of breaking that imbalance. But, says Kamran Shafi from Dawn newspaper, it would help Pakistan's civilian leaders if India were to \"draw down its [troop levels] in Kashmir\" and maintain government to government dialogue as it has done.It may seem simplistic, but building relationships is the key to peace in the subcontinent in the foreseeable future. Even now our expatriates freely mingle abroad at universities and in professional circles. Our retired military men routinely swap war stories over bottles of aged scotch whiskey in international capitals. Despite the barriers, the informal relationships we forge are, in the words of one Indian correspondent recently returned from Pakistan, \"the key to peace\". To achieve peace, the subcontinent's largest siblings must grow out of old rivalries.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nuclear weapons", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "Can India and Pakistan find friendship? | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-01-28T20:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A series of massacres of peaceful protesters by Pakistani security forces look set to sink hopes of a settlement deal between the government in Islamabad and Baloch nationalists who are campaigning for self-rule. There are fears that the sinister, shadowy Pakistani military and intelligence agencies are behind these killings, in a deliberate attempt to sabotage the reconciliation package put forward by the government of President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani.On 15 January, at least two Baloch political activists were shot dead and four others seriously wounded after Pakistani security forces opened fire on a peaceful protest organised by the Baloch Students Organisation (BSO) in the Khuzdar district of Balochistan. The rally had been called to protest against the recent murder of Baloch citizens in Karachi and the launching of a new military crackdown in Pakistani annexed and occupied Balochistan.The shootings are the latest of many killings of Baloch protesters and nationalist leaders. They've been targeted because of their support for the six-decades-long campaign of resistance against Pakistan's invasion and subjugation of their homeland.In September last year, Pakistani forces opened fire on a public gathering at Tump High School in Balochistan, killing a 20-year-old political activist, Mukhtar Baloch, and wounding 27 others, including four women and a six-year-old child. Five members of the BSO were arrested at the scene and taken to unknown locations. Watch this mobile phone footage of the attack \u2013 the shooting begins just over four minutes into the film.A similar Pakistani military assault on a peaceful Baloch rally took place in January 2009 in Turbat. A month later at Dashte Goran the army attacked a wedding party, killing 13 people, including the bride, groom, six family members and the wedding officiator. A total of 21 people were injured \u2013 the majority of them women.Rasool Bux Mengal, joint secretary of the Baloch National Movement (BNM), was abducted from Uthal last August. His tortured dead body, slashed and covered in cigarette burns, was found hanging from a tree. The intention was clear: to terrorise and intimidate the Baloch people. Mengal was the second BNM leader murdered in the last year. In April 2009, the body of Ghulam Mohammad, chair of the BNM, was found partly decomposed in a vat of toxic chemicals.In October last year, Baloch medical students were beaten up and arrested by Pakistani forces in a raid on the Bolan Medical College. The same month, 11 innocent civilians, including women and children, were killed in the Dera Bugti district by Pakistan army bombardments.Little wonder then that Baloch nationalist leaders have rejected the latest peace and reconciliation package proposed by the government in Islamabad. They cite the ongoing military repression and the inadequate nature of the proposals.At first glance, the \"Rahe-i- Haqooq Balochistan\" deal doesn't seem unreasonable. It offers a cessation in military operations, a ban on the construction of new army garrisons (although existing ones would remain), the release of most (not all) political detainees and a payment of $1.4bn in gas royalties, spread over 12 years.Baloch nationalists say the offer does not give the people of Balochistan control over their own natural resources or a fair price for them. Moreover, of the 4,000 Baloch people who have been arrested and disappeared, only a handful have been released since the democratic civilian government of Prime Minister Gilani was elected in 2008.The torture of Baloch rights campaigners remains routine and widespread. Promises of de-militarisation are contradicted by continued military operations, attacks on civilian targets and by the building of more police and military garrisons in Balochistan, including a 62% increase in police stations and a 100% increase in paramilitary checkpoints.Baloch human rights groups report that the kidnapping and torture of peaceful, lawful Baloch activists continues unabated. Indeed, the Pakistani government itself has admitted that in 2009 at least 1,102 people were seized by the security forces in Balochistan and disappeared. In recent years, an estimated 80,000 Baloch people have been displaced by Pakistan's military attacks.These attacks have been aided and abetted by military supplies from the UK, including small arms, artillery, helicopter components and military communications equipment. The US has sold the Pakistani military billions in arms, including F-16 attack aircraft, and Bell and Cobra attack helicopters, which have been used against the people of Balochistan.Rejecting Islamabad's proposals, nationalist leaders such as Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri and Akhtar Mengal, leader of the Balochistan National Party and a former chief minister of Balochistan, argue that the deal would not ensure genuine autonomy and self-rule. They see it as a way of continuing the Pakistani colonisation of their homeland.Indeed, if the government in Islamabad has a genuine intention to negotiate a settlement, why has it taken nearly two years to put forward these proposals and why are they so inadequate and qualified?The 1973 constitution of Pakistan promised complete provincial autonomy for Balochistan within 10 years. It never happened. Democratically elected Baloch chief ministers who have tried to defend the interests of the people of Balochistan have been sacked by Islamabad. The current chief minister, Aslam Raisani, has limited authority and can be overruled at any time by the federal government and the military top brass if he steps out of line.Even if the government of Pakistan had good intentions, its options are limited. Whatever President Zardari and Prime Minister Gilani may want to happen in Balochistan, they are in office but not truly in power. They are the public face of a Pakistani state that is beholden to more powerful forces \u2013 the Pakistani military and intelligence services, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) and Military Intelligence (MI). Together with the army, these intelligence services are the real power in Pakistan. They are implicated in six decades of disappearances, torture, detention without trial and extra-judicial killings in Balochistan.The former dictator and general, Pervez Musharaff, may have been ousted from the presidency in 2008 but his cronies still hold many of the key levers of power, especially in the all-crucial military, security and intelligence agencies. They continue to call the shots and pull the strings, regardless of what the democratic, civilian government says and wants.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Pakistan the oppressor | Peter Tatchell"},{"date": "2010-02-03T16:25:40Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "To many Pakistanis the most shocking aspect of the latest Taliban bombing was not the death toll, or the injuries inflicted on survivors, but the question that it raised: what was a team of American soldiers doing in a tense corner of North West Frontier province?In a way, the attack tugged the veil from a multi-faceted military assistance programme that, while not secret, is rarely publicised \u2013 by either side.President Obama's public aid to \u00adPakistan is transparent: $1.5bn a year for the next five years, mainly to boost the civilian government. But behind the scenes the US is engaged in other ways. Over the past decade it has given over $12bn in cash directly to the \u00admilitary to subsidise the costs of fighting the Taliban and al-Qaida. The programme to train the Frontier Corps, which the killed \u00adsoldiers were involved with, is \u00adestimated to be worth $400m more over several years.Generously provisioned counter-narcotics programmes operate along the Afghan border, funding everything from wells to schools. In Islamabad military contractors \u2013 usually retired army personnel \u2013 are paid to advise the army, discreetly working out of suburban houses. All this is hugely sensitive. Public opinion in Pakistan is overwhelmingly hostile to American \"interference\".Last year a media furore erupted over the role of the contractor Blackwater, which vocal right-wing commentators believed was part of a covert plot to steal the country's nuclear weapons.The Taliban played on that fear yesterday with a spokesman describing the bomb as \"revenge for the blasts carried out by Blackwater in Pakistan\".The critics are backed by public opinion. A survey last October found that 80% of Pakistanis rejected American assistance in fighting the Taliban.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Barack Obama", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Obama's silent war shocks Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-02-04T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Yes, there is a secret war going on in Pakistan, and it is one George W Bush should have started nine years ago. After the US abandoned Afghanistan following Soviet withdrawal in 1989, Pakistan supported Islamist groups in a bid to secure a pro-Islamabad government in Kabul. When Bush went into Afghanistan in 2001 with no plan other than to kick out the Taliban, he also threw billions of dollars at Pakistan to help in the \"war on terror\".Islamabad, however, did nothing to root out Islamist radicals near the border with Afghanistan, nor did it spend the $12bn on developing governance. Instead, the Pakistani government bought equipment such as F-16s to use in a war against India. Why the Bush administration allowed this to happen by selling them the equipment is beyond imagination.It became pretty apparent a few years ago that it did not matter what Nato forces did in Afghanistan if the Taliban were allowed to operate freely in Pakistan. If the Quetta Shura \u2013 the Taliban command based in the Pakistani city of Quetta \u2013 and other Taliban bases in remote parts of Baluchistan, for example, were not eradicated, then sending more troops to Afghanistan was pointless. Withdrawing international forces from Afghanistan also won't solve the problem, because the Taliban forces would then just return to dig into Afghanistan to oust the current government. Given what the Taliban allowed to occur when they were last in power this is an unacceptable option for Washington, London and the rest of Nato. Furthermore, despite all the problems in Afghanistan, the current government is far more popular today with the average Afghan than were the Taliban.The problems are multiple. The civilian government is too weak to take on the Taliban on its own. Some segments of the Pakistani military actually support the Taliban. They see the Taliban as a way to ensure a friendly government in Kabul, necessary for strategic depth in a war against India. If the US was to reduce the power of the Taliban, the situation in Pakistan needed to be addressed. Assassination of Taliban leaders using drones began under Bush and the programme quite rightly accelerated under Obama. So far in 2010 there have been a dozen drone strikes \u2013 a large increase on the average for 2009, which was about one per week.The presence of US forces on the ground is rightly more contentious. But US forces, as well as British SAS forces, have been operating in Pakistan at various points for years. Initially this was without authorisation from the Pakistani government and often because of mistrust between US and Pakistan forces. But after this most recent attack both Washington and Islamabad have to grudgingly admit that they are working closely with each other. Islamabad has been loth to admit the extent to which US forces are helping the Pakistani military with counter-insurgency training, never mind the fact that US forces are at times engaging in operations within Pakistani territory. Given that 80% of Pakistanis reject American assistance in fighting the Taliban, it was perhaps a wise move to keep the issue quiet.Ultimately the \"secret war\" in Pakistan represents an alternative model to Bush's very public \"war on terror\". Bush used the war on terror as a rhetorical tool to terrorise Americans into supporting a massive, ineffective global war abroad while taking away their civil rights at home. Obama and his administration have articulated a much more nuanced policy that does not reduce every actor to a \"terrorist\". It does not utilise grand rhetoric that elevates \"terrorists\" to the principal threat facing the US. It pushes them into dark corners, where they should be. It attempts to distinguish between al-Qaida and Taliban. It seems to classify Taliban into different groups.It is a strategy for using American power effectively, rather than blundering into countries with no clear or definable objectives. Most importantly, it is a strategy that goes after the real problems rather than creating new ones, as was the case in Iraq. It is also one that is backed up with significant amounts of economic and development assistance \u2013 $1.5bn a year for Pakistan alone.I have no doubt that this \"secret war\" being waged by the US with the approval of Islamabad will not be popular with many. At the end of the day, however, the US president is elected to keep the American people safe and to expect an administration not to act in the hope that the situation will just fix itself is fantasy.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "US military", "Nato", "World news", "Drones (military)"], "title": "The secret war in Pakistan | Michael Williams"},{"date": "2010-03-25T16:35:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Like siblings locked in an endless rivalry, India and Pakistan have bickered for well over six decades. Transforming that rivalry into a mature, productive relationship will be difficult. But the consequences of continued animosity will be much worse.Two words punctuate the dangers of one of the world's longest running cold wars: nuclear weapons. For years both countries have militarised at a breathtaking pace based on a shared belief that the other may attack at any moment. Although the international community regularly calls for a scale-back of forces in the heavily fortified Indo-Pak border, many of the same nations, spearheaded by the United States and Russia, have been happy to sell billions of dollars' worth of deadly weaponry to India and Pakistan, escalating the risks and magnitude of any future conflict.Such hypocrisy is compounded by the fact that most citizens in the subcontinent remain desperately poor and deeply frustrated by generations of neglect and exploitation by elites to whom they are invisible except when it is politically expedient. Politicians opportunistically drum up jingoistic diatribes, complete with rent-a-crowd protesters, against our neighbours, who can be conveniently blamed for everything, but mostly terrorism. It doesn't help that India and Pakistan have gone to war on four occasions and have a history of supporting violent insurgencies in each other's territory.The sad irony is that we Desis remain bound at the cultural hip \u2013 be it our love for cricket, Bollywood and Pakistani tele-dramas, or class consciousness. Travel restrictions mean only a handful of us ever get to meet one another, creating a dangerous isolation that feeds racist stereotypes and turns dialogue into a political liability.Practicalities have meant that diplomatic back channels have remained open, even in the darkest of days that followed the murderous rampage through Mumbai in 2008 or the attack on the Indian parliament in 2001. But along with terrorism, regional pretensions have stymied conciliation. Both India and Pakistan have strived to be ever more incorporated into the American imperial project at the expense of the other. Both complain that the US favours the other at their expense. As you read this, a high-level Pakistani delegation is in Washington trying to convince the Obama administration to endorse a civilian nuclear energy programme akin to that it has already reached with India. For their part, Indian lobbyists argue that US reliance on Pakistan for its strategy in Afghanistan sidelines India's successful trade and development approach to stabilising that troubled country.If there are any silver linings amid the grey clouds of competition, it is the fact that normalising relations would be a boon for business in both countries. This is greatly hampered, however, by the lack of an effective business lobby in Pakistan \u2013 like everything else here, the economy is firmly dominated by generals. When Pakistan recently signed a gas pipeline deal with Iran, the world's second largest supplier, India was notable by its absence. India was originally part of the venture only to withdraw owing to its present frosty relationship with Pakistan.Much of that frost comes from the snowy peaks of Jammu and Kashmir, the Himalayan region India and Pakistan have fought three wars over. Resolving this dispute is pivotal to normalising relations, but observers on both sides of the border are unanimously pessimistic this will occur in the foreseeable future. It is \"not clear who can sell\" peace in Kashmir, says Dr Harsh Pant from Kings College. Only an Indian government led by the rightwing BJP, Pant argues, could accept the kind of overture from Pakistan that in 2007 nearly commenced concrete steps towards resolving the dispute because voters trust it more on national security issues. In opposition, however, the BJP has been happy to score political points against the current Congress-led government, claiming its overtures to Pakistan represent appeasement of the enemy. Civilian observers in Pakistan are sceptical their army would ever endorse any such move because the Kashmir issue is its raison d'\u00eatre.Civilian leaders in both countries, and particularly India's prime minister Manmohan Singh, have pushed for continued talks between officials from their elected civilian governments. \"Dialogue is the only way forward\" says Indian analyst Kanti Bajpai, because \"everything else India has tried\", including the threat of war following the 2001 Indian parliament attack, has failed to change the dynamic. The perennial problem is the subservience of Pakistan's civilian government to military planners in Rawalpindi. Sadly, Pakistan's president Asif Zardari has proved incapable of breaking that imbalance. But, says Kamran Shafi from Dawn newspaper, it would help Pakistan's civilian leaders if India were to \"draw down its [troop levels] in Kashmir\" and maintain government to government dialogue as it has done.It may seem simplistic, but building relationships is the key to peace in the subcontinent in the foreseeable future. Even now our expatriates freely mingle abroad at universities and in professional circles. Our retired military men routinely swap war stories over bottles of aged scotch whiskey in international capitals. Despite the barriers, the informal relationships we forge are, in the words of one Indian correspondent recently returned from Pakistan, \"the key to peace\". To achieve peace, the subcontinent's largest siblings must grow out of old rivalries.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nuclear weapons", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "Can India and Pakistan find friendship? | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-03-25T11:42:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two men have been arrested in Pakistan over the kidnapping of the British boy Sahil Saeed.Sahil was reunited with his family in Oldham on Friday after being taken hostage during a raid on his grandmother's house in Jhelum, in the Punjab province.Pakistani police confirmed at a press conference in Jhelum today that they had detained two members of the gang suspected of the kidnapping. The suspects, their faces covered by hoods, were paraded before the press and allowed to speak to reporters. Police said the gang was wanted in connection with the murders of up to 22\u00a0people.\"This is a very dangerous gang. We are after two more of them,\" the regional police chief, Aslam Tareen, said. adding that the kidnapping was opportunistic.One of the kidnapping suspects, said to be the mastermind, told journalists he and the other men had only intended to steal goods from the home of Sahil's grandmother, but they decided to abduct the five-year-old when they saw his British passport.Tareen did not disclose when or where the men were arrested, but said officers had recovered a range of weapons, including grenades, rockets, bombs, machine guns and pistols, which were on display.Raja Naqqash Saeed, Sahil's father, rang the police during the press conference, and was put on speaker phone as he thanked officers and reported that his son was doing well.Five people were arrested in France and Spain last week after an elaborate operation involving police in both countries. Officers tracked two Pakistani men and a Romanian woman who had collected a \u00a3110,000 ransom payment from Sahil's father, before arresting them near Barcelona. Two other people were arrested in Paris.Police are seeking the extradition of the two Pakistani men arrested in Spain.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Sahil Saeed kidnap suspects arrested in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-01-28T20:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A series of massacres of peaceful protesters by Pakistani security forces look set to sink hopes of a settlement deal between the government in Islamabad and Baloch nationalists who are campaigning for self-rule. There are fears that the sinister, shadowy Pakistani military and intelligence agencies are behind these killings, in a deliberate attempt to sabotage the reconciliation package put forward by the government of President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani.On 15 January, at least two Baloch political activists were shot dead and four others seriously wounded after Pakistani security forces opened fire on a peaceful protest organised by the Baloch Students Organisation (BSO) in the Khuzdar district of Balochistan. The rally had been called to protest against the recent murder of Baloch citizens in Karachi and the launching of a new military crackdown in Pakistani annexed and occupied Balochistan.The shootings are the latest of many killings of Baloch protesters and nationalist leaders. They've been targeted because of their support for the six-decades-long campaign of resistance against Pakistan's invasion and subjugation of their homeland.In September last year, Pakistani forces opened fire on a public gathering at Tump High School in Balochistan, killing a 20-year-old political activist, Mukhtar Baloch, and wounding 27 others, including four women and a six-year-old child. Five members of the BSO were arrested at the scene and taken to unknown locations. Watch this mobile phone footage of the attack \u2013 the shooting begins just over four minutes into the film.A similar Pakistani military assault on a peaceful Baloch rally took place in January 2009 in Turbat. A month later at Dashte Goran the army attacked a wedding party, killing 13 people, including the bride, groom, six family members and the wedding officiator. A total of 21 people were injured \u2013 the majority of them women.Rasool Bux Mengal, joint secretary of the Baloch National Movement (BNM), was abducted from Uthal last August. His tortured dead body, slashed and covered in cigarette burns, was found hanging from a tree. The intention was clear: to terrorise and intimidate the Baloch people. Mengal was the second BNM leader murdered in the last year. In April 2009, the body of Ghulam Mohammad, chair of the BNM, was found partly decomposed in a vat of toxic chemicals.In October last year, Baloch medical students were beaten up and arrested by Pakistani forces in a raid on the Bolan Medical College. The same month, 11 innocent civilians, including women and children, were killed in the Dera Bugti district by Pakistan army bombardments.Little wonder then that Baloch nationalist leaders have rejected the latest peace and reconciliation package proposed by the government in Islamabad. They cite the ongoing military repression and the inadequate nature of the proposals.At first glance, the \"Rahe-i- Haqooq Balochistan\" deal doesn't seem unreasonable. It offers a cessation in military operations, a ban on the construction of new army garrisons (although existing ones would remain), the release of most (not all) political detainees and a payment of $1.4bn in gas royalties, spread over 12 years.Baloch nationalists say the offer does not give the people of Balochistan control over their own natural resources or a fair price for them. Moreover, of the 4,000 Baloch people who have been arrested and disappeared, only a handful have been released since the democratic civilian government of Prime Minister Gilani was elected in 2008.The torture of Baloch rights campaigners remains routine and widespread. Promises of de-militarisation are contradicted by continued military operations, attacks on civilian targets and by the building of more police and military garrisons in Balochistan, including a 62% increase in police stations and a 100% increase in paramilitary checkpoints.Baloch human rights groups report that the kidnapping and torture of peaceful, lawful Baloch activists continues unabated. Indeed, the Pakistani government itself has admitted that in 2009 at least 1,102 people were seized by the security forces in Balochistan and disappeared. In recent years, an estimated 80,000 Baloch people have been displaced by Pakistan's military attacks.These attacks have been aided and abetted by military supplies from the UK, including small arms, artillery, helicopter components and military communications equipment. The US has sold the Pakistani military billions in arms, including F-16 attack aircraft, and Bell and Cobra attack helicopters, which have been used against the people of Balochistan.Rejecting Islamabad's proposals, nationalist leaders such as Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri and Akhtar Mengal, leader of the Balochistan National Party and a former chief minister of Balochistan, argue that the deal would not ensure genuine autonomy and self-rule. They see it as a way of continuing the Pakistani colonisation of their homeland.Indeed, if the government in Islamabad has a genuine intention to negotiate a settlement, why has it taken nearly two years to put forward these proposals and why are they so inadequate and qualified?The 1973 constitution of Pakistan promised complete provincial autonomy for Balochistan within 10 years. It never happened. Democratically elected Baloch chief ministers who have tried to defend the interests of the people of Balochistan have been sacked by Islamabad. The current chief minister, Aslam Raisani, has limited authority and can be overruled at any time by the federal government and the military top brass if he steps out of line.Even if the government of Pakistan had good intentions, its options are limited. Whatever President Zardari and Prime Minister Gilani may want to happen in Balochistan, they are in office but not truly in power. They are the public face of a Pakistani state that is beholden to more powerful forces \u2013 the Pakistani military and intelligence services, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) and Military Intelligence (MI). Together with the army, these intelligence services are the real power in Pakistan. They are implicated in six decades of disappearances, torture, detention without trial and extra-judicial killings in Balochistan.The former dictator and general, Pervez Musharaff, may have been ousted from the presidency in 2008 but his cronies still hold many of the key levers of power, especially in the all-crucial military, security and intelligence agencies. They continue to call the shots and pull the strings, regardless of what the democratic, civilian government says and wants.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Pakistan the oppressor | Peter Tatchell"},{"date": "2010-02-03T16:25:40Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "To many Pakistanis the most shocking aspect of the latest Taliban bombing was not the death toll, or the injuries inflicted on survivors, but the question that it raised: what was a team of American soldiers doing in a tense corner of North West Frontier province?In a way, the attack tugged the veil from a multi-faceted military assistance programme that, while not secret, is rarely publicised \u2013 by either side.President Obama's public aid to \u00adPakistan is transparent: $1.5bn a year for the next five years, mainly to boost the civilian government. But behind the scenes the US is engaged in other ways. Over the past decade it has given over $12bn in cash directly to the \u00admilitary to subsidise the costs of fighting the Taliban and al-Qaida. The programme to train the Frontier Corps, which the killed \u00adsoldiers were involved with, is \u00adestimated to be worth $400m more over several years.Generously provisioned counter-narcotics programmes operate along the Afghan border, funding everything from wells to schools. In Islamabad military contractors \u2013 usually retired army personnel \u2013 are paid to advise the army, discreetly working out of suburban houses. All this is hugely sensitive. Public opinion in Pakistan is overwhelmingly hostile to American \"interference\".Last year a media furore erupted over the role of the contractor Blackwater, which vocal right-wing commentators believed was part of a covert plot to steal the country's nuclear weapons.The Taliban played on that fear yesterday with a spokesman describing the bomb as \"revenge for the blasts carried out by Blackwater in Pakistan\".The critics are backed by public opinion. A survey last October found that 80% of Pakistanis rejected American assistance in fighting the Taliban.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Barack Obama", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Obama's silent war shocks Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-02-04T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Yes, there is a secret war going on in Pakistan, and it is one George W Bush should have started nine years ago. After the US abandoned Afghanistan following Soviet withdrawal in 1989, Pakistan supported Islamist groups in a bid to secure a pro-Islamabad government in Kabul. When Bush went into Afghanistan in 2001 with no plan other than to kick out the Taliban, he also threw billions of dollars at Pakistan to help in the \"war on terror\".Islamabad, however, did nothing to root out Islamist radicals near the border with Afghanistan, nor did it spend the $12bn on developing governance. Instead, the Pakistani government bought equipment such as F-16s to use in a war against India. Why the Bush administration allowed this to happen by selling them the equipment is beyond imagination.It became pretty apparent a few years ago that it did not matter what Nato forces did in Afghanistan if the Taliban were allowed to operate freely in Pakistan. If the Quetta Shura \u2013 the Taliban command based in the Pakistani city of Quetta \u2013 and other Taliban bases in remote parts of Baluchistan, for example, were not eradicated, then sending more troops to Afghanistan was pointless. Withdrawing international forces from Afghanistan also won't solve the problem, because the Taliban forces would then just return to dig into Afghanistan to oust the current government. Given what the Taliban allowed to occur when they were last in power this is an unacceptable option for Washington, London and the rest of Nato. Furthermore, despite all the problems in Afghanistan, the current government is far more popular today with the average Afghan than were the Taliban.The problems are multiple. The civilian government is too weak to take on the Taliban on its own. Some segments of the Pakistani military actually support the Taliban. They see the Taliban as a way to ensure a friendly government in Kabul, necessary for strategic depth in a war against India. If the US was to reduce the power of the Taliban, the situation in Pakistan needed to be addressed. Assassination of Taliban leaders using drones began under Bush and the programme quite rightly accelerated under Obama. So far in 2010 there have been a dozen drone strikes \u2013 a large increase on the average for 2009, which was about one per week.The presence of US forces on the ground is rightly more contentious. But US forces, as well as British SAS forces, have been operating in Pakistan at various points for years. Initially this was without authorisation from the Pakistani government and often because of mistrust between US and Pakistan forces. But after this most recent attack both Washington and Islamabad have to grudgingly admit that they are working closely with each other. Islamabad has been loth to admit the extent to which US forces are helping the Pakistani military with counter-insurgency training, never mind the fact that US forces are at times engaging in operations within Pakistani territory. Given that 80% of Pakistanis reject American assistance in fighting the Taliban, it was perhaps a wise move to keep the issue quiet.Ultimately the \"secret war\" in Pakistan represents an alternative model to Bush's very public \"war on terror\". Bush used the war on terror as a rhetorical tool to terrorise Americans into supporting a massive, ineffective global war abroad while taking away their civil rights at home. Obama and his administration have articulated a much more nuanced policy that does not reduce every actor to a \"terrorist\". It does not utilise grand rhetoric that elevates \"terrorists\" to the principal threat facing the US. It pushes them into dark corners, where they should be. It attempts to distinguish between al-Qaida and Taliban. It seems to classify Taliban into different groups.It is a strategy for using American power effectively, rather than blundering into countries with no clear or definable objectives. Most importantly, it is a strategy that goes after the real problems rather than creating new ones, as was the case in Iraq. It is also one that is backed up with significant amounts of economic and development assistance \u2013 $1.5bn a year for Pakistan alone.I have no doubt that this \"secret war\" being waged by the US with the approval of Islamabad will not be popular with many. At the end of the day, however, the US president is elected to keep the American people safe and to expect an administration not to act in the hope that the situation will just fix itself is fantasy.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "US military", "Nato", "World news", "Drones (military)"], "title": "The secret war in Pakistan | Michael Williams"},{"date": "2010-03-25T16:35:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Like siblings locked in an endless rivalry, India and Pakistan have bickered for well over six decades. Transforming that rivalry into a mature, productive relationship will be difficult. But the consequences of continued animosity will be much worse.Two words punctuate the dangers of one of the world's longest running cold wars: nuclear weapons. For years both countries have militarised at a breathtaking pace based on a shared belief that the other may attack at any moment. Although the international community regularly calls for a scale-back of forces in the heavily fortified Indo-Pak border, many of the same nations, spearheaded by the United States and Russia, have been happy to sell billions of dollars' worth of deadly weaponry to India and Pakistan, escalating the risks and magnitude of any future conflict.Such hypocrisy is compounded by the fact that most citizens in the subcontinent remain desperately poor and deeply frustrated by generations of neglect and exploitation by elites to whom they are invisible except when it is politically expedient. Politicians opportunistically drum up jingoistic diatribes, complete with rent-a-crowd protesters, against our neighbours, who can be conveniently blamed for everything, but mostly terrorism. It doesn't help that India and Pakistan have gone to war on four occasions and have a history of supporting violent insurgencies in each other's territory.The sad irony is that we Desis remain bound at the cultural hip \u2013 be it our love for cricket, Bollywood and Pakistani tele-dramas, or class consciousness. Travel restrictions mean only a handful of us ever get to meet one another, creating a dangerous isolation that feeds racist stereotypes and turns dialogue into a political liability.Practicalities have meant that diplomatic back channels have remained open, even in the darkest of days that followed the murderous rampage through Mumbai in 2008 or the attack on the Indian parliament in 2001. But along with terrorism, regional pretensions have stymied conciliation. Both India and Pakistan have strived to be ever more incorporated into the American imperial project at the expense of the other. Both complain that the US favours the other at their expense. As you read this, a high-level Pakistani delegation is in Washington trying to convince the Obama administration to endorse a civilian nuclear energy programme akin to that it has already reached with India. For their part, Indian lobbyists argue that US reliance on Pakistan for its strategy in Afghanistan sidelines India's successful trade and development approach to stabilising that troubled country.If there are any silver linings amid the grey clouds of competition, it is the fact that normalising relations would be a boon for business in both countries. This is greatly hampered, however, by the lack of an effective business lobby in Pakistan \u2013 like everything else here, the economy is firmly dominated by generals. When Pakistan recently signed a gas pipeline deal with Iran, the world's second largest supplier, India was notable by its absence. India was originally part of the venture only to withdraw owing to its present frosty relationship with Pakistan.Much of that frost comes from the snowy peaks of Jammu and Kashmir, the Himalayan region India and Pakistan have fought three wars over. Resolving this dispute is pivotal to normalising relations, but observers on both sides of the border are unanimously pessimistic this will occur in the foreseeable future. It is \"not clear who can sell\" peace in Kashmir, says Dr Harsh Pant from Kings College. Only an Indian government led by the rightwing BJP, Pant argues, could accept the kind of overture from Pakistan that in 2007 nearly commenced concrete steps towards resolving the dispute because voters trust it more on national security issues. In opposition, however, the BJP has been happy to score political points against the current Congress-led government, claiming its overtures to Pakistan represent appeasement of the enemy. Civilian observers in Pakistan are sceptical their army would ever endorse any such move because the Kashmir issue is its raison d'\u00eatre.Civilian leaders in both countries, and particularly India's prime minister Manmohan Singh, have pushed for continued talks between officials from their elected civilian governments. \"Dialogue is the only way forward\" says Indian analyst Kanti Bajpai, because \"everything else India has tried\", including the threat of war following the 2001 Indian parliament attack, has failed to change the dynamic. The perennial problem is the subservience of Pakistan's civilian government to military planners in Rawalpindi. Sadly, Pakistan's president Asif Zardari has proved incapable of breaking that imbalance. But, says Kamran Shafi from Dawn newspaper, it would help Pakistan's civilian leaders if India were to \"draw down its [troop levels] in Kashmir\" and maintain government to government dialogue as it has done.It may seem simplistic, but building relationships is the key to peace in the subcontinent in the foreseeable future. Even now our expatriates freely mingle abroad at universities and in professional circles. Our retired military men routinely swap war stories over bottles of aged scotch whiskey in international capitals. Despite the barriers, the informal relationships we forge are, in the words of one Indian correspondent recently returned from Pakistan, \"the key to peace\". To achieve peace, the subcontinent's largest siblings must grow out of old rivalries.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nuclear weapons", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "Can India and Pakistan find friendship? | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-03-25T11:42:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two men have been arrested in Pakistan over the kidnapping of the British boy Sahil Saeed.Sahil was reunited with his family in Oldham on Friday after being taken hostage during a raid on his grandmother's house in Jhelum, in the Punjab province.Pakistani police confirmed at a press conference in Jhelum today that they had detained two members of the gang suspected of the kidnapping. The suspects, their faces covered by hoods, were paraded before the press and allowed to speak to reporters. Police said the gang was wanted in connection with the murders of up to 22\u00a0people.\"This is a very dangerous gang. We are after two more of them,\" the regional police chief, Aslam Tareen, said. adding that the kidnapping was opportunistic.One of the kidnapping suspects, said to be the mastermind, told journalists he and the other men had only intended to steal goods from the home of Sahil's grandmother, but they decided to abduct the five-year-old when they saw his British passport.Tareen did not disclose when or where the men were arrested, but said officers had recovered a range of weapons, including grenades, rockets, bombs, machine guns and pistols, which were on display.Raja Naqqash Saeed, Sahil's father, rang the police during the press conference, and was put on speaker phone as he thanked officers and reported that his son was doing well.Five people were arrested in France and Spain last week after an elaborate operation involving police in both countries. Officers tracked two Pakistani men and a Romanian woman who had collected a \u00a3110,000 ransom payment from Sahil's father, before arresting them near Barcelona. Two other people were arrested in Paris.Police are seeking the extradition of the two Pakistani men arrested in Spain.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Sahil Saeed kidnap suspects arrested in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-03-22T17:53:59Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan wants the US to provide it with nuclear technology for a civilian energy programme and is to push the Obama administration this week for a deal.Islamabad seeks a civilian nuclear deal to mirror the package granted to India by George Bush, a proposal that would prove contentious in Washington, given Pakistan's uneven record on combating extremist groups and its sale of nuclear technology to states hostile to the west, led by the former head of its programme, Dr Abdul Qadeer Khan.A spokesman for Pakistan's ministry of foreign affairs, Abdul Basit, said today: \"Pakistan is an energy-deficit country and we're looking for all sources, including nuclear, to meeting our requirements.\"A team led by Pakistan's foreign minister that includes the country's army commander and spy chief is due to arrive in Washington on Wednesday for meetings with their US counterparts, including Hillary Clinton, the secretary of state, in an effort to relaunch dialogue between the two allies. Afghanistan and help for Pakistan's near-bankrupt economy will also be on the agenda.Many experts believe Pakistan holds the key to stabilising Afghanistan and it is trying to position itself as a sole conduit to talk to the Taliban.The US meetings, are designed to restart talks that were last held in 2008.Pakistan believes it has suffered from the violent fallout of US-led intervention in neighbouring Afghanistan and requires further assistance, despite a recent $7.5bn (\u00a35bn) US aid injection.A civilian nuclear deal, which would provide technology and fuel for power plants, could be the carrot required for Pakistan to finally cut its ties to jihad groups. A variety of incentives since 2001, including military equipment and civilian aid, have not worked, say experts.Christine Fair, an assistant professor at Georgetown University in Washington, said: \"We need a big idea for Pakistan, to transform it from a source of insecurity for the region to a country committed to eliminating terrorism and ensuring that nuclear proliferation doesn't happen again.\"We're trying to get Pakistan to do things that are in our strategic interests but not in theirs.\"Pakistan craves a nuclear deal because it aspires to parity with India, say analysts.It bristles with indignation over the perceived special treatment accorded to India, which it believes has upset the regional balance of power in South Asia.Prof Shaun Gregory, director of the Pakistan security research unit at Bradford University, said: \"Through the deal, India became a de facto member of the nuclear club and Pakistan doesn't understand why it wasn't offered the same thing. Pakistan has to position itself as an equal to India.\"While Pakistan and India used to be bracketed together, Pakistan is now lumped in with Afghanistan under \"Af-Pak\", a diplomatic relegation, while India is lauded as a growing power.Pakistan's past record of nuclear proliferation hangs over it, especially as its renegade scientist, Abdul Qadeer Khan, continues to make revelations about his secret arms sales. Khan was placed under house arrest in 2004 but has since been released.David Albright, a former UN weapons inspector who is president of Institute for Science and International Security, an independent thinktank in Washington, said: \"Pakistan has a chance (for a civil nuclear deal) but it has to overcome some pretty serious roads. If there was a trial of AQ Khan and he was jailed, that would help.\"A US-Pakistan deal could take several years to hammer out. The US-India agreement has not been not finalised, more than five years after negotiations began.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan pushes US for nuclear technology deal"},{"date": "2010-01-28T20:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A series of massacres of peaceful protesters by Pakistani security forces look set to sink hopes of a settlement deal between the government in Islamabad and Baloch nationalists who are campaigning for self-rule. There are fears that the sinister, shadowy Pakistani military and intelligence agencies are behind these killings, in a deliberate attempt to sabotage the reconciliation package put forward by the government of President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani.On 15 January, at least two Baloch political activists were shot dead and four others seriously wounded after Pakistani security forces opened fire on a peaceful protest organised by the Baloch Students Organisation (BSO) in the Khuzdar district of Balochistan. The rally had been called to protest against the recent murder of Baloch citizens in Karachi and the launching of a new military crackdown in Pakistani annexed and occupied Balochistan.The shootings are the latest of many killings of Baloch protesters and nationalist leaders. They've been targeted because of their support for the six-decades-long campaign of resistance against Pakistan's invasion and subjugation of their homeland.In September last year, Pakistani forces opened fire on a public gathering at Tump High School in Balochistan, killing a 20-year-old political activist, Mukhtar Baloch, and wounding 27 others, including four women and a six-year-old child. Five members of the BSO were arrested at the scene and taken to unknown locations. Watch this mobile phone footage of the attack \u2013 the shooting begins just over four minutes into the film.A similar Pakistani military assault on a peaceful Baloch rally took place in January 2009 in Turbat. A month later at Dashte Goran the army attacked a wedding party, killing 13 people, including the bride, groom, six family members and the wedding officiator. A total of 21 people were injured \u2013 the majority of them women.Rasool Bux Mengal, joint secretary of the Baloch National Movement (BNM), was abducted from Uthal last August. His tortured dead body, slashed and covered in cigarette burns, was found hanging from a tree. The intention was clear: to terrorise and intimidate the Baloch people. Mengal was the second BNM leader murdered in the last year. In April 2009, the body of Ghulam Mohammad, chair of the BNM, was found partly decomposed in a vat of toxic chemicals.In October last year, Baloch medical students were beaten up and arrested by Pakistani forces in a raid on the Bolan Medical College. The same month, 11 innocent civilians, including women and children, were killed in the Dera Bugti district by Pakistan army bombardments.Little wonder then that Baloch nationalist leaders have rejected the latest peace and reconciliation package proposed by the government in Islamabad. They cite the ongoing military repression and the inadequate nature of the proposals.At first glance, the \"Rahe-i- Haqooq Balochistan\" deal doesn't seem unreasonable. It offers a cessation in military operations, a ban on the construction of new army garrisons (although existing ones would remain), the release of most (not all) political detainees and a payment of $1.4bn in gas royalties, spread over 12 years.Baloch nationalists say the offer does not give the people of Balochistan control over their own natural resources or a fair price for them. Moreover, of the 4,000 Baloch people who have been arrested and disappeared, only a handful have been released since the democratic civilian government of Prime Minister Gilani was elected in 2008.The torture of Baloch rights campaigners remains routine and widespread. Promises of de-militarisation are contradicted by continued military operations, attacks on civilian targets and by the building of more police and military garrisons in Balochistan, including a 62% increase in police stations and a 100% increase in paramilitary checkpoints.Baloch human rights groups report that the kidnapping and torture of peaceful, lawful Baloch activists continues unabated. Indeed, the Pakistani government itself has admitted that in 2009 at least 1,102 people were seized by the security forces in Balochistan and disappeared. In recent years, an estimated 80,000 Baloch people have been displaced by Pakistan's military attacks.These attacks have been aided and abetted by military supplies from the UK, including small arms, artillery, helicopter components and military communications equipment. The US has sold the Pakistani military billions in arms, including F-16 attack aircraft, and Bell and Cobra attack helicopters, which have been used against the people of Balochistan.Rejecting Islamabad's proposals, nationalist leaders such as Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri and Akhtar Mengal, leader of the Balochistan National Party and a former chief minister of Balochistan, argue that the deal would not ensure genuine autonomy and self-rule. They see it as a way of continuing the Pakistani colonisation of their homeland.Indeed, if the government in Islamabad has a genuine intention to negotiate a settlement, why has it taken nearly two years to put forward these proposals and why are they so inadequate and qualified?The 1973 constitution of Pakistan promised complete provincial autonomy for Balochistan within 10 years. It never happened. Democratically elected Baloch chief ministers who have tried to defend the interests of the people of Balochistan have been sacked by Islamabad. The current chief minister, Aslam Raisani, has limited authority and can be overruled at any time by the federal government and the military top brass if he steps out of line.Even if the government of Pakistan had good intentions, its options are limited. Whatever President Zardari and Prime Minister Gilani may want to happen in Balochistan, they are in office but not truly in power. They are the public face of a Pakistani state that is beholden to more powerful forces \u2013 the Pakistani military and intelligence services, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) and Military Intelligence (MI). Together with the army, these intelligence services are the real power in Pakistan. They are implicated in six decades of disappearances, torture, detention without trial and extra-judicial killings in Balochistan.The former dictator and general, Pervez Musharaff, may have been ousted from the presidency in 2008 but his cronies still hold many of the key levers of power, especially in the all-crucial military, security and intelligence agencies. They continue to call the shots and pull the strings, regardless of what the democratic, civilian government says and wants.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Pakistan the oppressor | Peter Tatchell"},{"date": "2010-02-03T16:25:40Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "To many Pakistanis the most shocking aspect of the latest Taliban bombing was not the death toll, or the injuries inflicted on survivors, but the question that it raised: what was a team of American soldiers doing in a tense corner of North West Frontier province?In a way, the attack tugged the veil from a multi-faceted military assistance programme that, while not secret, is rarely publicised \u2013 by either side.President Obama's public aid to \u00adPakistan is transparent: $1.5bn a year for the next five years, mainly to boost the civilian government. But behind the scenes the US is engaged in other ways. Over the past decade it has given over $12bn in cash directly to the \u00admilitary to subsidise the costs of fighting the Taliban and al-Qaida. The programme to train the Frontier Corps, which the killed \u00adsoldiers were involved with, is \u00adestimated to be worth $400m more over several years.Generously provisioned counter-narcotics programmes operate along the Afghan border, funding everything from wells to schools. In Islamabad military contractors \u2013 usually retired army personnel \u2013 are paid to advise the army, discreetly working out of suburban houses. All this is hugely sensitive. Public opinion in Pakistan is overwhelmingly hostile to American \"interference\".Last year a media furore erupted over the role of the contractor Blackwater, which vocal right-wing commentators believed was part of a covert plot to steal the country's nuclear weapons.The Taliban played on that fear yesterday with a spokesman describing the bomb as \"revenge for the blasts carried out by Blackwater in Pakistan\".The critics are backed by public opinion. A survey last October found that 80% of Pakistanis rejected American assistance in fighting the Taliban.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Barack Obama", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Obama's silent war shocks Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-02-04T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Yes, there is a secret war going on in Pakistan, and it is one George W Bush should have started nine years ago. After the US abandoned Afghanistan following Soviet withdrawal in 1989, Pakistan supported Islamist groups in a bid to secure a pro-Islamabad government in Kabul. When Bush went into Afghanistan in 2001 with no plan other than to kick out the Taliban, he also threw billions of dollars at Pakistan to help in the \"war on terror\".Islamabad, however, did nothing to root out Islamist radicals near the border with Afghanistan, nor did it spend the $12bn on developing governance. Instead, the Pakistani government bought equipment such as F-16s to use in a war against India. Why the Bush administration allowed this to happen by selling them the equipment is beyond imagination.It became pretty apparent a few years ago that it did not matter what Nato forces did in Afghanistan if the Taliban were allowed to operate freely in Pakistan. If the Quetta Shura \u2013 the Taliban command based in the Pakistani city of Quetta \u2013 and other Taliban bases in remote parts of Baluchistan, for example, were not eradicated, then sending more troops to Afghanistan was pointless. Withdrawing international forces from Afghanistan also won't solve the problem, because the Taliban forces would then just return to dig into Afghanistan to oust the current government. Given what the Taliban allowed to occur when they were last in power this is an unacceptable option for Washington, London and the rest of Nato. Furthermore, despite all the problems in Afghanistan, the current government is far more popular today with the average Afghan than were the Taliban.The problems are multiple. The civilian government is too weak to take on the Taliban on its own. Some segments of the Pakistani military actually support the Taliban. They see the Taliban as a way to ensure a friendly government in Kabul, necessary for strategic depth in a war against India. If the US was to reduce the power of the Taliban, the situation in Pakistan needed to be addressed. Assassination of Taliban leaders using drones began under Bush and the programme quite rightly accelerated under Obama. So far in 2010 there have been a dozen drone strikes \u2013 a large increase on the average for 2009, which was about one per week.The presence of US forces on the ground is rightly more contentious. But US forces, as well as British SAS forces, have been operating in Pakistan at various points for years. Initially this was without authorisation from the Pakistani government and often because of mistrust between US and Pakistan forces. But after this most recent attack both Washington and Islamabad have to grudgingly admit that they are working closely with each other. Islamabad has been loth to admit the extent to which US forces are helping the Pakistani military with counter-insurgency training, never mind the fact that US forces are at times engaging in operations within Pakistani territory. Given that 80% of Pakistanis reject American assistance in fighting the Taliban, it was perhaps a wise move to keep the issue quiet.Ultimately the \"secret war\" in Pakistan represents an alternative model to Bush's very public \"war on terror\". Bush used the war on terror as a rhetorical tool to terrorise Americans into supporting a massive, ineffective global war abroad while taking away their civil rights at home. Obama and his administration have articulated a much more nuanced policy that does not reduce every actor to a \"terrorist\". It does not utilise grand rhetoric that elevates \"terrorists\" to the principal threat facing the US. It pushes them into dark corners, where they should be. It attempts to distinguish between al-Qaida and Taliban. It seems to classify Taliban into different groups.It is a strategy for using American power effectively, rather than blundering into countries with no clear or definable objectives. Most importantly, it is a strategy that goes after the real problems rather than creating new ones, as was the case in Iraq. It is also one that is backed up with significant amounts of economic and development assistance \u2013 $1.5bn a year for Pakistan alone.I have no doubt that this \"secret war\" being waged by the US with the approval of Islamabad will not be popular with many. At the end of the day, however, the US president is elected to keep the American people safe and to expect an administration not to act in the hope that the situation will just fix itself is fantasy.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "US military", "Nato", "World news", "Drones (military)"], "title": "The secret war in Pakistan | Michael Williams"},{"date": "2010-03-25T16:35:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Like siblings locked in an endless rivalry, India and Pakistan have bickered for well over six decades. Transforming that rivalry into a mature, productive relationship will be difficult. But the consequences of continued animosity will be much worse.Two words punctuate the dangers of one of the world's longest running cold wars: nuclear weapons. For years both countries have militarised at a breathtaking pace based on a shared belief that the other may attack at any moment. Although the international community regularly calls for a scale-back of forces in the heavily fortified Indo-Pak border, many of the same nations, spearheaded by the United States and Russia, have been happy to sell billions of dollars' worth of deadly weaponry to India and Pakistan, escalating the risks and magnitude of any future conflict.Such hypocrisy is compounded by the fact that most citizens in the subcontinent remain desperately poor and deeply frustrated by generations of neglect and exploitation by elites to whom they are invisible except when it is politically expedient. Politicians opportunistically drum up jingoistic diatribes, complete with rent-a-crowd protesters, against our neighbours, who can be conveniently blamed for everything, but mostly terrorism. It doesn't help that India and Pakistan have gone to war on four occasions and have a history of supporting violent insurgencies in each other's territory.The sad irony is that we Desis remain bound at the cultural hip \u2013 be it our love for cricket, Bollywood and Pakistani tele-dramas, or class consciousness. Travel restrictions mean only a handful of us ever get to meet one another, creating a dangerous isolation that feeds racist stereotypes and turns dialogue into a political liability.Practicalities have meant that diplomatic back channels have remained open, even in the darkest of days that followed the murderous rampage through Mumbai in 2008 or the attack on the Indian parliament in 2001. But along with terrorism, regional pretensions have stymied conciliation. Both India and Pakistan have strived to be ever more incorporated into the American imperial project at the expense of the other. Both complain that the US favours the other at their expense. As you read this, a high-level Pakistani delegation is in Washington trying to convince the Obama administration to endorse a civilian nuclear energy programme akin to that it has already reached with India. For their part, Indian lobbyists argue that US reliance on Pakistan for its strategy in Afghanistan sidelines India's successful trade and development approach to stabilising that troubled country.If there are any silver linings amid the grey clouds of competition, it is the fact that normalising relations would be a boon for business in both countries. This is greatly hampered, however, by the lack of an effective business lobby in Pakistan \u2013 like everything else here, the economy is firmly dominated by generals. When Pakistan recently signed a gas pipeline deal with Iran, the world's second largest supplier, India was notable by its absence. India was originally part of the venture only to withdraw owing to its present frosty relationship with Pakistan.Much of that frost comes from the snowy peaks of Jammu and Kashmir, the Himalayan region India and Pakistan have fought three wars over. Resolving this dispute is pivotal to normalising relations, but observers on both sides of the border are unanimously pessimistic this will occur in the foreseeable future. It is \"not clear who can sell\" peace in Kashmir, says Dr Harsh Pant from Kings College. Only an Indian government led by the rightwing BJP, Pant argues, could accept the kind of overture from Pakistan that in 2007 nearly commenced concrete steps towards resolving the dispute because voters trust it more on national security issues. In opposition, however, the BJP has been happy to score political points against the current Congress-led government, claiming its overtures to Pakistan represent appeasement of the enemy. Civilian observers in Pakistan are sceptical their army would ever endorse any such move because the Kashmir issue is its raison d'\u00eatre.Civilian leaders in both countries, and particularly India's prime minister Manmohan Singh, have pushed for continued talks between officials from their elected civilian governments. \"Dialogue is the only way forward\" says Indian analyst Kanti Bajpai, because \"everything else India has tried\", including the threat of war following the 2001 Indian parliament attack, has failed to change the dynamic. The perennial problem is the subservience of Pakistan's civilian government to military planners in Rawalpindi. Sadly, Pakistan's president Asif Zardari has proved incapable of breaking that imbalance. But, says Kamran Shafi from Dawn newspaper, it would help Pakistan's civilian leaders if India were to \"draw down its [troop levels] in Kashmir\" and maintain government to government dialogue as it has done.It may seem simplistic, but building relationships is the key to peace in the subcontinent in the foreseeable future. Even now our expatriates freely mingle abroad at universities and in professional circles. Our retired military men routinely swap war stories over bottles of aged scotch whiskey in international capitals. Despite the barriers, the informal relationships we forge are, in the words of one Indian correspondent recently returned from Pakistan, \"the key to peace\". To achieve peace, the subcontinent's largest siblings must grow out of old rivalries.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nuclear weapons", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "Can India and Pakistan find friendship? | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-03-25T11:42:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two men have been arrested in Pakistan over the kidnapping of the British boy Sahil Saeed.Sahil was reunited with his family in Oldham on Friday after being taken hostage during a raid on his grandmother's house in Jhelum, in the Punjab province.Pakistani police confirmed at a press conference in Jhelum today that they had detained two members of the gang suspected of the kidnapping. The suspects, their faces covered by hoods, were paraded before the press and allowed to speak to reporters. Police said the gang was wanted in connection with the murders of up to 22\u00a0people.\"This is a very dangerous gang. We are after two more of them,\" the regional police chief, Aslam Tareen, said. adding that the kidnapping was opportunistic.One of the kidnapping suspects, said to be the mastermind, told journalists he and the other men had only intended to steal goods from the home of Sahil's grandmother, but they decided to abduct the five-year-old when they saw his British passport.Tareen did not disclose when or where the men were arrested, but said officers had recovered a range of weapons, including grenades, rockets, bombs, machine guns and pistols, which were on display.Raja Naqqash Saeed, Sahil's father, rang the police during the press conference, and was put on speaker phone as he thanked officers and reported that his son was doing well.Five people were arrested in France and Spain last week after an elaborate operation involving police in both countries. Officers tracked two Pakistani men and a Romanian woman who had collected a \u00a3110,000 ransom payment from Sahil's father, before arresting them near Barcelona. Two other people were arrested in Paris.Police are seeking the extradition of the two Pakistani men arrested in Spain.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Sahil Saeed kidnap suspects arrested in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-03-22T17:53:59Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan wants the US to provide it with nuclear technology for a civilian energy programme and is to push the Obama administration this week for a deal.Islamabad seeks a civilian nuclear deal to mirror the package granted to India by George Bush, a proposal that would prove contentious in Washington, given Pakistan's uneven record on combating extremist groups and its sale of nuclear technology to states hostile to the west, led by the former head of its programme, Dr Abdul Qadeer Khan.A spokesman for Pakistan's ministry of foreign affairs, Abdul Basit, said today: \"Pakistan is an energy-deficit country and we're looking for all sources, including nuclear, to meeting our requirements.\"A team led by Pakistan's foreign minister that includes the country's army commander and spy chief is due to arrive in Washington on Wednesday for meetings with their US counterparts, including Hillary Clinton, the secretary of state, in an effort to relaunch dialogue between the two allies. Afghanistan and help for Pakistan's near-bankrupt economy will also be on the agenda.Many experts believe Pakistan holds the key to stabilising Afghanistan and it is trying to position itself as a sole conduit to talk to the Taliban.The US meetings, are designed to restart talks that were last held in 2008.Pakistan believes it has suffered from the violent fallout of US-led intervention in neighbouring Afghanistan and requires further assistance, despite a recent $7.5bn (\u00a35bn) US aid injection.A civilian nuclear deal, which would provide technology and fuel for power plants, could be the carrot required for Pakistan to finally cut its ties to jihad groups. A variety of incentives since 2001, including military equipment and civilian aid, have not worked, say experts.Christine Fair, an assistant professor at Georgetown University in Washington, said: \"We need a big idea for Pakistan, to transform it from a source of insecurity for the region to a country committed to eliminating terrorism and ensuring that nuclear proliferation doesn't happen again.\"We're trying to get Pakistan to do things that are in our strategic interests but not in theirs.\"Pakistan craves a nuclear deal because it aspires to parity with India, say analysts.It bristles with indignation over the perceived special treatment accorded to India, which it believes has upset the regional balance of power in South Asia.Prof Shaun Gregory, director of the Pakistan security research unit at Bradford University, said: \"Through the deal, India became a de facto member of the nuclear club and Pakistan doesn't understand why it wasn't offered the same thing. Pakistan has to position itself as an equal to India.\"While Pakistan and India used to be bracketed together, Pakistan is now lumped in with Afghanistan under \"Af-Pak\", a diplomatic relegation, while India is lauded as a growing power.Pakistan's past record of nuclear proliferation hangs over it, especially as its renegade scientist, Abdul Qadeer Khan, continues to make revelations about his secret arms sales. Khan was placed under house arrest in 2004 but has since been released.David Albright, a former UN weapons inspector who is president of Institute for Science and International Security, an independent thinktank in Washington, said: \"Pakistan has a chance (for a civil nuclear deal) but it has to overcome some pretty serious roads. If there was a trial of AQ Khan and he was jailed, that would help.\"A US-Pakistan deal could take several years to hammer out. The US-India agreement has not been not finalised, more than five years after negotiations began.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan pushes US for nuclear technology deal"},{"date": "2010-03-16T05:54:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The five-year-old British boy kidnapped on holiday in Pakistan nearly two weeks ago has been found, British officials and his family confirmed today.Sahil Saeed was snatched from a house in the Punjab region of the country on 4 March, after robbers held his family hostage at gunpoint.He is believed to have been recovered by police after being dumped by kidnappers in Kharian, about 40km from Jhelum the town in the Punjab province where he was taken.\"Sahil is in police custody,\" said the boy's grandfather Raja Basharat, speaking to Pakistani media. \"God willing, they will bring him top our house. The whole family has gathered here waiting.\"Sahil, from Oldham, was on holiday with his father Raja Naqqash Saeed, visiting family in Jhelum, when robbers broke into the house and took the boy away.The British High Commission in Islamabad said today he had been released and was safe, describing his recovery as \"fantastic news\".\"It brings to an end the traumatic ordeal faced by Sahil Saeed's family,\" said Adam Thomson, the British High Commissioner in Islamabad.\"I would like to praise the high level of cooperation between the UK and Pakistani authorities and in particular I would like to thank the Jhelum police for their role in bringing about the safe return of Sahil.\"Rana Sanaullah, the provincial law minister, said there had never previously been so much government effort put into such a kidnapping case. He said that Pakistani intelligence were also involved in the boy's recovery.Sanaullah added, without explaining further: \"He (Sahil) was safe and sound for the last four to five days. It was just a question of (securing) his custody.\"Last week Sanaullah had mistakenly announced that Sahil had been recovered, mixing up the case with that of another kidnapped boy.xRaiders had struck as the pair were preparing to take a taxi to the airport for their flight home to the UK.The kidnappers originally set a deadline of noon the next day for the money to be delivered.After Sahil was taken, several men - including a taxi driver - were arrested.His family suffered frustrations during the investigation, after Pakistani authorities said on several occasions they were close to securing the boy's release.Sahil's mother, Akila Naqqash, begged for the safe return of her son back home in Oldham, telling the kidnappers at one point: \"I just want my son back. All is forgiven, I will forgive you.\"Naqqash Saeed returned to the UK at the start of last week, despite reports police in Pakistan wanted him to stay in the country as a witness.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Kidnapped British boy found safe in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-01-28T20:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A series of massacres of peaceful protesters by Pakistani security forces look set to sink hopes of a settlement deal between the government in Islamabad and Baloch nationalists who are campaigning for self-rule. There are fears that the sinister, shadowy Pakistani military and intelligence agencies are behind these killings, in a deliberate attempt to sabotage the reconciliation package put forward by the government of President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani.On 15 January, at least two Baloch political activists were shot dead and four others seriously wounded after Pakistani security forces opened fire on a peaceful protest organised by the Baloch Students Organisation (BSO) in the Khuzdar district of Balochistan. The rally had been called to protest against the recent murder of Baloch citizens in Karachi and the launching of a new military crackdown in Pakistani annexed and occupied Balochistan.The shootings are the latest of many killings of Baloch protesters and nationalist leaders. They've been targeted because of their support for the six-decades-long campaign of resistance against Pakistan's invasion and subjugation of their homeland.In September last year, Pakistani forces opened fire on a public gathering at Tump High School in Balochistan, killing a 20-year-old political activist, Mukhtar Baloch, and wounding 27 others, including four women and a six-year-old child. Five members of the BSO were arrested at the scene and taken to unknown locations. Watch this mobile phone footage of the attack \u2013 the shooting begins just over four minutes into the film.A similar Pakistani military assault on a peaceful Baloch rally took place in January 2009 in Turbat. A month later at Dashte Goran the army attacked a wedding party, killing 13 people, including the bride, groom, six family members and the wedding officiator. A total of 21 people were injured \u2013 the majority of them women.Rasool Bux Mengal, joint secretary of the Baloch National Movement (BNM), was abducted from Uthal last August. His tortured dead body, slashed and covered in cigarette burns, was found hanging from a tree. The intention was clear: to terrorise and intimidate the Baloch people. Mengal was the second BNM leader murdered in the last year. In April 2009, the body of Ghulam Mohammad, chair of the BNM, was found partly decomposed in a vat of toxic chemicals.In October last year, Baloch medical students were beaten up and arrested by Pakistani forces in a raid on the Bolan Medical College. The same month, 11 innocent civilians, including women and children, were killed in the Dera Bugti district by Pakistan army bombardments.Little wonder then that Baloch nationalist leaders have rejected the latest peace and reconciliation package proposed by the government in Islamabad. They cite the ongoing military repression and the inadequate nature of the proposals.At first glance, the \"Rahe-i- Haqooq Balochistan\" deal doesn't seem unreasonable. It offers a cessation in military operations, a ban on the construction of new army garrisons (although existing ones would remain), the release of most (not all) political detainees and a payment of $1.4bn in gas royalties, spread over 12 years.Baloch nationalists say the offer does not give the people of Balochistan control over their own natural resources or a fair price for them. Moreover, of the 4,000 Baloch people who have been arrested and disappeared, only a handful have been released since the democratic civilian government of Prime Minister Gilani was elected in 2008.The torture of Baloch rights campaigners remains routine and widespread. Promises of de-militarisation are contradicted by continued military operations, attacks on civilian targets and by the building of more police and military garrisons in Balochistan, including a 62% increase in police stations and a 100% increase in paramilitary checkpoints.Baloch human rights groups report that the kidnapping and torture of peaceful, lawful Baloch activists continues unabated. Indeed, the Pakistani government itself has admitted that in 2009 at least 1,102 people were seized by the security forces in Balochistan and disappeared. In recent years, an estimated 80,000 Baloch people have been displaced by Pakistan's military attacks.These attacks have been aided and abetted by military supplies from the UK, including small arms, artillery, helicopter components and military communications equipment. The US has sold the Pakistani military billions in arms, including F-16 attack aircraft, and Bell and Cobra attack helicopters, which have been used against the people of Balochistan.Rejecting Islamabad's proposals, nationalist leaders such as Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri and Akhtar Mengal, leader of the Balochistan National Party and a former chief minister of Balochistan, argue that the deal would not ensure genuine autonomy and self-rule. They see it as a way of continuing the Pakistani colonisation of their homeland.Indeed, if the government in Islamabad has a genuine intention to negotiate a settlement, why has it taken nearly two years to put forward these proposals and why are they so inadequate and qualified?The 1973 constitution of Pakistan promised complete provincial autonomy for Balochistan within 10 years. It never happened. Democratically elected Baloch chief ministers who have tried to defend the interests of the people of Balochistan have been sacked by Islamabad. The current chief minister, Aslam Raisani, has limited authority and can be overruled at any time by the federal government and the military top brass if he steps out of line.Even if the government of Pakistan had good intentions, its options are limited. Whatever President Zardari and Prime Minister Gilani may want to happen in Balochistan, they are in office but not truly in power. They are the public face of a Pakistani state that is beholden to more powerful forces \u2013 the Pakistani military and intelligence services, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) and Military Intelligence (MI). Together with the army, these intelligence services are the real power in Pakistan. They are implicated in six decades of disappearances, torture, detention without trial and extra-judicial killings in Balochistan.The former dictator and general, Pervez Musharaff, may have been ousted from the presidency in 2008 but his cronies still hold many of the key levers of power, especially in the all-crucial military, security and intelligence agencies. They continue to call the shots and pull the strings, regardless of what the democratic, civilian government says and wants.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Pakistan the oppressor | Peter Tatchell"},{"date": "2010-02-03T16:25:40Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "To many Pakistanis the most shocking aspect of the latest Taliban bombing was not the death toll, or the injuries inflicted on survivors, but the question that it raised: what was a team of American soldiers doing in a tense corner of North West Frontier province?In a way, the attack tugged the veil from a multi-faceted military assistance programme that, while not secret, is rarely publicised \u2013 by either side.President Obama's public aid to \u00adPakistan is transparent: $1.5bn a year for the next five years, mainly to boost the civilian government. But behind the scenes the US is engaged in other ways. Over the past decade it has given over $12bn in cash directly to the \u00admilitary to subsidise the costs of fighting the Taliban and al-Qaida. The programme to train the Frontier Corps, which the killed \u00adsoldiers were involved with, is \u00adestimated to be worth $400m more over several years.Generously provisioned counter-narcotics programmes operate along the Afghan border, funding everything from wells to schools. In Islamabad military contractors \u2013 usually retired army personnel \u2013 are paid to advise the army, discreetly working out of suburban houses. All this is hugely sensitive. Public opinion in Pakistan is overwhelmingly hostile to American \"interference\".Last year a media furore erupted over the role of the contractor Blackwater, which vocal right-wing commentators believed was part of a covert plot to steal the country's nuclear weapons.The Taliban played on that fear yesterday with a spokesman describing the bomb as \"revenge for the blasts carried out by Blackwater in Pakistan\".The critics are backed by public opinion. A survey last October found that 80% of Pakistanis rejected American assistance in fighting the Taliban.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Barack Obama", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Obama's silent war shocks Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-02-04T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Yes, there is a secret war going on in Pakistan, and it is one George W Bush should have started nine years ago. After the US abandoned Afghanistan following Soviet withdrawal in 1989, Pakistan supported Islamist groups in a bid to secure a pro-Islamabad government in Kabul. When Bush went into Afghanistan in 2001 with no plan other than to kick out the Taliban, he also threw billions of dollars at Pakistan to help in the \"war on terror\".Islamabad, however, did nothing to root out Islamist radicals near the border with Afghanistan, nor did it spend the $12bn on developing governance. Instead, the Pakistani government bought equipment such as F-16s to use in a war against India. Why the Bush administration allowed this to happen by selling them the equipment is beyond imagination.It became pretty apparent a few years ago that it did not matter what Nato forces did in Afghanistan if the Taliban were allowed to operate freely in Pakistan. If the Quetta Shura \u2013 the Taliban command based in the Pakistani city of Quetta \u2013 and other Taliban bases in remote parts of Baluchistan, for example, were not eradicated, then sending more troops to Afghanistan was pointless. Withdrawing international forces from Afghanistan also won't solve the problem, because the Taliban forces would then just return to dig into Afghanistan to oust the current government. Given what the Taliban allowed to occur when they were last in power this is an unacceptable option for Washington, London and the rest of Nato. Furthermore, despite all the problems in Afghanistan, the current government is far more popular today with the average Afghan than were the Taliban.The problems are multiple. The civilian government is too weak to take on the Taliban on its own. Some segments of the Pakistani military actually support the Taliban. They see the Taliban as a way to ensure a friendly government in Kabul, necessary for strategic depth in a war against India. If the US was to reduce the power of the Taliban, the situation in Pakistan needed to be addressed. Assassination of Taliban leaders using drones began under Bush and the programme quite rightly accelerated under Obama. So far in 2010 there have been a dozen drone strikes \u2013 a large increase on the average for 2009, which was about one per week.The presence of US forces on the ground is rightly more contentious. But US forces, as well as British SAS forces, have been operating in Pakistan at various points for years. Initially this was without authorisation from the Pakistani government and often because of mistrust between US and Pakistan forces. But after this most recent attack both Washington and Islamabad have to grudgingly admit that they are working closely with each other. Islamabad has been loth to admit the extent to which US forces are helping the Pakistani military with counter-insurgency training, never mind the fact that US forces are at times engaging in operations within Pakistani territory. Given that 80% of Pakistanis reject American assistance in fighting the Taliban, it was perhaps a wise move to keep the issue quiet.Ultimately the \"secret war\" in Pakistan represents an alternative model to Bush's very public \"war on terror\". Bush used the war on terror as a rhetorical tool to terrorise Americans into supporting a massive, ineffective global war abroad while taking away their civil rights at home. Obama and his administration have articulated a much more nuanced policy that does not reduce every actor to a \"terrorist\". It does not utilise grand rhetoric that elevates \"terrorists\" to the principal threat facing the US. It pushes them into dark corners, where they should be. It attempts to distinguish between al-Qaida and Taliban. It seems to classify Taliban into different groups.It is a strategy for using American power effectively, rather than blundering into countries with no clear or definable objectives. Most importantly, it is a strategy that goes after the real problems rather than creating new ones, as was the case in Iraq. It is also one that is backed up with significant amounts of economic and development assistance \u2013 $1.5bn a year for Pakistan alone.I have no doubt that this \"secret war\" being waged by the US with the approval of Islamabad will not be popular with many. At the end of the day, however, the US president is elected to keep the American people safe and to expect an administration not to act in the hope that the situation will just fix itself is fantasy.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "US military", "Nato", "World news", "Drones (military)"], "title": "The secret war in Pakistan | Michael Williams"},{"date": "2010-03-25T16:35:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Like siblings locked in an endless rivalry, India and Pakistan have bickered for well over six decades. Transforming that rivalry into a mature, productive relationship will be difficult. But the consequences of continued animosity will be much worse.Two words punctuate the dangers of one of the world's longest running cold wars: nuclear weapons. For years both countries have militarised at a breathtaking pace based on a shared belief that the other may attack at any moment. Although the international community regularly calls for a scale-back of forces in the heavily fortified Indo-Pak border, many of the same nations, spearheaded by the United States and Russia, have been happy to sell billions of dollars' worth of deadly weaponry to India and Pakistan, escalating the risks and magnitude of any future conflict.Such hypocrisy is compounded by the fact that most citizens in the subcontinent remain desperately poor and deeply frustrated by generations of neglect and exploitation by elites to whom they are invisible except when it is politically expedient. Politicians opportunistically drum up jingoistic diatribes, complete with rent-a-crowd protesters, against our neighbours, who can be conveniently blamed for everything, but mostly terrorism. It doesn't help that India and Pakistan have gone to war on four occasions and have a history of supporting violent insurgencies in each other's territory.The sad irony is that we Desis remain bound at the cultural hip \u2013 be it our love for cricket, Bollywood and Pakistani tele-dramas, or class consciousness. Travel restrictions mean only a handful of us ever get to meet one another, creating a dangerous isolation that feeds racist stereotypes and turns dialogue into a political liability.Practicalities have meant that diplomatic back channels have remained open, even in the darkest of days that followed the murderous rampage through Mumbai in 2008 or the attack on the Indian parliament in 2001. But along with terrorism, regional pretensions have stymied conciliation. Both India and Pakistan have strived to be ever more incorporated into the American imperial project at the expense of the other. Both complain that the US favours the other at their expense. As you read this, a high-level Pakistani delegation is in Washington trying to convince the Obama administration to endorse a civilian nuclear energy programme akin to that it has already reached with India. For their part, Indian lobbyists argue that US reliance on Pakistan for its strategy in Afghanistan sidelines India's successful trade and development approach to stabilising that troubled country.If there are any silver linings amid the grey clouds of competition, it is the fact that normalising relations would be a boon for business in both countries. This is greatly hampered, however, by the lack of an effective business lobby in Pakistan \u2013 like everything else here, the economy is firmly dominated by generals. When Pakistan recently signed a gas pipeline deal with Iran, the world's second largest supplier, India was notable by its absence. India was originally part of the venture only to withdraw owing to its present frosty relationship with Pakistan.Much of that frost comes from the snowy peaks of Jammu and Kashmir, the Himalayan region India and Pakistan have fought three wars over. Resolving this dispute is pivotal to normalising relations, but observers on both sides of the border are unanimously pessimistic this will occur in the foreseeable future. It is \"not clear who can sell\" peace in Kashmir, says Dr Harsh Pant from Kings College. Only an Indian government led by the rightwing BJP, Pant argues, could accept the kind of overture from Pakistan that in 2007 nearly commenced concrete steps towards resolving the dispute because voters trust it more on national security issues. In opposition, however, the BJP has been happy to score political points against the current Congress-led government, claiming its overtures to Pakistan represent appeasement of the enemy. Civilian observers in Pakistan are sceptical their army would ever endorse any such move because the Kashmir issue is its raison d'\u00eatre.Civilian leaders in both countries, and particularly India's prime minister Manmohan Singh, have pushed for continued talks between officials from their elected civilian governments. \"Dialogue is the only way forward\" says Indian analyst Kanti Bajpai, because \"everything else India has tried\", including the threat of war following the 2001 Indian parliament attack, has failed to change the dynamic. The perennial problem is the subservience of Pakistan's civilian government to military planners in Rawalpindi. Sadly, Pakistan's president Asif Zardari has proved incapable of breaking that imbalance. But, says Kamran Shafi from Dawn newspaper, it would help Pakistan's civilian leaders if India were to \"draw down its [troop levels] in Kashmir\" and maintain government to government dialogue as it has done.It may seem simplistic, but building relationships is the key to peace in the subcontinent in the foreseeable future. Even now our expatriates freely mingle abroad at universities and in professional circles. Our retired military men routinely swap war stories over bottles of aged scotch whiskey in international capitals. Despite the barriers, the informal relationships we forge are, in the words of one Indian correspondent recently returned from Pakistan, \"the key to peace\". To achieve peace, the subcontinent's largest siblings must grow out of old rivalries.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nuclear weapons", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "Can India and Pakistan find friendship? | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-03-25T11:42:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two men have been arrested in Pakistan over the kidnapping of the British boy Sahil Saeed.Sahil was reunited with his family in Oldham on Friday after being taken hostage during a raid on his grandmother's house in Jhelum, in the Punjab province.Pakistani police confirmed at a press conference in Jhelum today that they had detained two members of the gang suspected of the kidnapping. The suspects, their faces covered by hoods, were paraded before the press and allowed to speak to reporters. Police said the gang was wanted in connection with the murders of up to 22\u00a0people.\"This is a very dangerous gang. We are after two more of them,\" the regional police chief, Aslam Tareen, said. adding that the kidnapping was opportunistic.One of the kidnapping suspects, said to be the mastermind, told journalists he and the other men had only intended to steal goods from the home of Sahil's grandmother, but they decided to abduct the five-year-old when they saw his British passport.Tareen did not disclose when or where the men were arrested, but said officers had recovered a range of weapons, including grenades, rockets, bombs, machine guns and pistols, which were on display.Raja Naqqash Saeed, Sahil's father, rang the police during the press conference, and was put on speaker phone as he thanked officers and reported that his son was doing well.Five people were arrested in France and Spain last week after an elaborate operation involving police in both countries. Officers tracked two Pakistani men and a Romanian woman who had collected a \u00a3110,000 ransom payment from Sahil's father, before arresting them near Barcelona. Two other people were arrested in Paris.Police are seeking the extradition of the two Pakistani men arrested in Spain.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Sahil Saeed kidnap suspects arrested in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-03-22T17:53:59Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan wants the US to provide it with nuclear technology for a civilian energy programme and is to push the Obama administration this week for a deal.Islamabad seeks a civilian nuclear deal to mirror the package granted to India by George Bush, a proposal that would prove contentious in Washington, given Pakistan's uneven record on combating extremist groups and its sale of nuclear technology to states hostile to the west, led by the former head of its programme, Dr Abdul Qadeer Khan.A spokesman for Pakistan's ministry of foreign affairs, Abdul Basit, said today: \"Pakistan is an energy-deficit country and we're looking for all sources, including nuclear, to meeting our requirements.\"A team led by Pakistan's foreign minister that includes the country's army commander and spy chief is due to arrive in Washington on Wednesday for meetings with their US counterparts, including Hillary Clinton, the secretary of state, in an effort to relaunch dialogue between the two allies. Afghanistan and help for Pakistan's near-bankrupt economy will also be on the agenda.Many experts believe Pakistan holds the key to stabilising Afghanistan and it is trying to position itself as a sole conduit to talk to the Taliban.The US meetings, are designed to restart talks that were last held in 2008.Pakistan believes it has suffered from the violent fallout of US-led intervention in neighbouring Afghanistan and requires further assistance, despite a recent $7.5bn (\u00a35bn) US aid injection.A civilian nuclear deal, which would provide technology and fuel for power plants, could be the carrot required for Pakistan to finally cut its ties to jihad groups. A variety of incentives since 2001, including military equipment and civilian aid, have not worked, say experts.Christine Fair, an assistant professor at Georgetown University in Washington, said: \"We need a big idea for Pakistan, to transform it from a source of insecurity for the region to a country committed to eliminating terrorism and ensuring that nuclear proliferation doesn't happen again.\"We're trying to get Pakistan to do things that are in our strategic interests but not in theirs.\"Pakistan craves a nuclear deal because it aspires to parity with India, say analysts.It bristles with indignation over the perceived special treatment accorded to India, which it believes has upset the regional balance of power in South Asia.Prof Shaun Gregory, director of the Pakistan security research unit at Bradford University, said: \"Through the deal, India became a de facto member of the nuclear club and Pakistan doesn't understand why it wasn't offered the same thing. Pakistan has to position itself as an equal to India.\"While Pakistan and India used to be bracketed together, Pakistan is now lumped in with Afghanistan under \"Af-Pak\", a diplomatic relegation, while India is lauded as a growing power.Pakistan's past record of nuclear proliferation hangs over it, especially as its renegade scientist, Abdul Qadeer Khan, continues to make revelations about his secret arms sales. Khan was placed under house arrest in 2004 but has since been released.David Albright, a former UN weapons inspector who is president of Institute for Science and International Security, an independent thinktank in Washington, said: \"Pakistan has a chance (for a civil nuclear deal) but it has to overcome some pretty serious roads. If there was a trial of AQ Khan and he was jailed, that would help.\"A US-Pakistan deal could take several years to hammer out. The US-India agreement has not been not finalised, more than five years after negotiations began.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan pushes US for nuclear technology deal"},{"date": "2010-03-16T05:54:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The five-year-old British boy kidnapped on holiday in Pakistan nearly two weeks ago has been found, British officials and his family confirmed today.Sahil Saeed was snatched from a house in the Punjab region of the country on 4 March, after robbers held his family hostage at gunpoint.He is believed to have been recovered by police after being dumped by kidnappers in Kharian, about 40km from Jhelum the town in the Punjab province where he was taken.\"Sahil is in police custody,\" said the boy's grandfather Raja Basharat, speaking to Pakistani media. \"God willing, they will bring him top our house. The whole family has gathered here waiting.\"Sahil, from Oldham, was on holiday with his father Raja Naqqash Saeed, visiting family in Jhelum, when robbers broke into the house and took the boy away.The British High Commission in Islamabad said today he had been released and was safe, describing his recovery as \"fantastic news\".\"It brings to an end the traumatic ordeal faced by Sahil Saeed's family,\" said Adam Thomson, the British High Commissioner in Islamabad.\"I would like to praise the high level of cooperation between the UK and Pakistani authorities and in particular I would like to thank the Jhelum police for their role in bringing about the safe return of Sahil.\"Rana Sanaullah, the provincial law minister, said there had never previously been so much government effort put into such a kidnapping case. He said that Pakistani intelligence were also involved in the boy's recovery.Sanaullah added, without explaining further: \"He (Sahil) was safe and sound for the last four to five days. It was just a question of (securing) his custody.\"Last week Sanaullah had mistakenly announced that Sahil had been recovered, mixing up the case with that of another kidnapped boy.xRaiders had struck as the pair were preparing to take a taxi to the airport for their flight home to the UK.The kidnappers originally set a deadline of noon the next day for the money to be delivered.After Sahil was taken, several men - including a taxi driver - were arrested.His family suffered frustrations during the investigation, after Pakistani authorities said on several occasions they were close to securing the boy's release.Sahil's mother, Akila Naqqash, begged for the safe return of her son back home in Oldham, telling the kidnappers at one point: \"I just want my son back. All is forgiven, I will forgive you.\"Naqqash Saeed returned to the UK at the start of last week, despite reports police in Pakistan wanted him to stay in the country as a witness.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Kidnapped British boy found safe in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-03-14T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "What exactly is Pakistan all about? The international media will tell you it's one of the most dangerous places on earth, beset by sectarian warfare and religious extremism. Well-heeled Pakistanis beg to differ. Their country, they say, is made up of an irrepressible population that likes to buy the latest fashions, listen to the latest music and read poetry about mysticism.In reality, Pakistan is both of those things and many more in between. The country has spent most of its existence ruled by military dictators, but each of them was regularly lampooned in newspaper cartoons. Today, it has a largely rural and conservative society but one of the country's most popular talk show hosts is a Dame Edna-style transvestite. It has a politically engaged population that tunes into the many current affairs programmes broadcast on more than 70 private channels with enough regularity to make Pakistani news media one of the few in the world to turn a profit. Its largest media group has spearheaded an attack on the perceived corruption of politicians with a ferocity that makes the MPs' expenses scandal in the UK pale in comparison.Many Pakistanis distrust western intentions, but that doesn't mean helping Pakistan involves battling the country's character. Pakistan's greatest strengths contribute to its most pressing problems. A governing ideology inherited from the British still values a free press and independent civil society. At the same time, a relatively hands-off approach to religion has allowed local extremists to build extensive local infrastructure with outside funding. As the world now knows, that extremism was nurtured and exploited by whisky-loving generals (with the tacit support of western powers) for short-term gain and has now turned against the state.Extremism is not just limited to the Taliban in the North West Frontier Province (NWFP) but is bleeding into the rest of society. In a restaurant tucked away in a corner of Islamabad's upscale shopping district I met a 20-something Pakistani friend with an encyclopaedic knowledge of rap lyrics and Indian movie starlets. After ordering a beer from the restaurant's illicit stash, he told me why he thought his more conservative relatives held the answer to Pakistan's social and economic problems. \"In my uncle's family the women cover their faces and they have thrown out their television, banned music and disconnected the internet \u2026 They had the strength to follow Islam properly. I wish I had. If we all did, Pakistan would no longer be weak,\" he said.Yet many Pakistanis oppose this sort of outlook. And they aren't just the rich, insulated and western-educated. In Attock, a small village on the border of Punjab and NWFP, I met local people who had decided that the growing extremism they were witnessing amongst their young men was down to the serious lack of educational opportunities, social services and proper Islamic knowledge. They are working on building a girls' school, a hospital and a mosque with a teacher capable of challenging the cult of suicide bombings and the ideology of religiously sanctioned hate. However, despite America's commitment to provide $7.5bn to strengthen Pakistani civil society over the next five years, the villagers of Attock \u2013 who lack the right connections \u2013 have been unable to find anyone to help them with their project.For the last five months, I have been working in Pakistan on a project to support the many elements of Pakistan's society who believe that hating other religions or different Islamic communities is against the nature of Islam. Our project, Karvaan-e-Amn (Caravan of Peace) has its work cut out, not because its message its alien, but because we are trying to argue against an ideology that has been purposely built up over 30 years with millions of dollars worth of foreign funding.Pakistan's future is far from decided. It needs help to become a peaceful, prosperous and stable country, and those who stand ready to assist will find allies from across its diverse society. They might also be surprised by a nation that dearly wants to prove wrong its portrayal in the international media.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "In search of the real Pakistan | Amil Khan"},{"date": "2010-01-28T20:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A series of massacres of peaceful protesters by Pakistani security forces look set to sink hopes of a settlement deal between the government in Islamabad and Baloch nationalists who are campaigning for self-rule. There are fears that the sinister, shadowy Pakistani military and intelligence agencies are behind these killings, in a deliberate attempt to sabotage the reconciliation package put forward by the government of President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani.On 15 January, at least two Baloch political activists were shot dead and four others seriously wounded after Pakistani security forces opened fire on a peaceful protest organised by the Baloch Students Organisation (BSO) in the Khuzdar district of Balochistan. The rally had been called to protest against the recent murder of Baloch citizens in Karachi and the launching of a new military crackdown in Pakistani annexed and occupied Balochistan.The shootings are the latest of many killings of Baloch protesters and nationalist leaders. They've been targeted because of their support for the six-decades-long campaign of resistance against Pakistan's invasion and subjugation of their homeland.In September last year, Pakistani forces opened fire on a public gathering at Tump High School in Balochistan, killing a 20-year-old political activist, Mukhtar Baloch, and wounding 27 others, including four women and a six-year-old child. Five members of the BSO were arrested at the scene and taken to unknown locations. Watch this mobile phone footage of the attack \u2013 the shooting begins just over four minutes into the film.A similar Pakistani military assault on a peaceful Baloch rally took place in January 2009 in Turbat. A month later at Dashte Goran the army attacked a wedding party, killing 13 people, including the bride, groom, six family members and the wedding officiator. A total of 21 people were injured \u2013 the majority of them women.Rasool Bux Mengal, joint secretary of the Baloch National Movement (BNM), was abducted from Uthal last August. His tortured dead body, slashed and covered in cigarette burns, was found hanging from a tree. The intention was clear: to terrorise and intimidate the Baloch people. Mengal was the second BNM leader murdered in the last year. In April 2009, the body of Ghulam Mohammad, chair of the BNM, was found partly decomposed in a vat of toxic chemicals.In October last year, Baloch medical students were beaten up and arrested by Pakistani forces in a raid on the Bolan Medical College. The same month, 11 innocent civilians, including women and children, were killed in the Dera Bugti district by Pakistan army bombardments.Little wonder then that Baloch nationalist leaders have rejected the latest peace and reconciliation package proposed by the government in Islamabad. They cite the ongoing military repression and the inadequate nature of the proposals.At first glance, the \"Rahe-i- Haqooq Balochistan\" deal doesn't seem unreasonable. It offers a cessation in military operations, a ban on the construction of new army garrisons (although existing ones would remain), the release of most (not all) political detainees and a payment of $1.4bn in gas royalties, spread over 12 years.Baloch nationalists say the offer does not give the people of Balochistan control over their own natural resources or a fair price for them. Moreover, of the 4,000 Baloch people who have been arrested and disappeared, only a handful have been released since the democratic civilian government of Prime Minister Gilani was elected in 2008.The torture of Baloch rights campaigners remains routine and widespread. Promises of de-militarisation are contradicted by continued military operations, attacks on civilian targets and by the building of more police and military garrisons in Balochistan, including a 62% increase in police stations and a 100% increase in paramilitary checkpoints.Baloch human rights groups report that the kidnapping and torture of peaceful, lawful Baloch activists continues unabated. Indeed, the Pakistani government itself has admitted that in 2009 at least 1,102 people were seized by the security forces in Balochistan and disappeared. In recent years, an estimated 80,000 Baloch people have been displaced by Pakistan's military attacks.These attacks have been aided and abetted by military supplies from the UK, including small arms, artillery, helicopter components and military communications equipment. The US has sold the Pakistani military billions in arms, including F-16 attack aircraft, and Bell and Cobra attack helicopters, which have been used against the people of Balochistan.Rejecting Islamabad's proposals, nationalist leaders such as Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri and Akhtar Mengal, leader of the Balochistan National Party and a former chief minister of Balochistan, argue that the deal would not ensure genuine autonomy and self-rule. They see it as a way of continuing the Pakistani colonisation of their homeland.Indeed, if the government in Islamabad has a genuine intention to negotiate a settlement, why has it taken nearly two years to put forward these proposals and why are they so inadequate and qualified?The 1973 constitution of Pakistan promised complete provincial autonomy for Balochistan within 10 years. It never happened. Democratically elected Baloch chief ministers who have tried to defend the interests of the people of Balochistan have been sacked by Islamabad. The current chief minister, Aslam Raisani, has limited authority and can be overruled at any time by the federal government and the military top brass if he steps out of line.Even if the government of Pakistan had good intentions, its options are limited. Whatever President Zardari and Prime Minister Gilani may want to happen in Balochistan, they are in office but not truly in power. They are the public face of a Pakistani state that is beholden to more powerful forces \u2013 the Pakistani military and intelligence services, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) and Military Intelligence (MI). Together with the army, these intelligence services are the real power in Pakistan. They are implicated in six decades of disappearances, torture, detention without trial and extra-judicial killings in Balochistan.The former dictator and general, Pervez Musharaff, may have been ousted from the presidency in 2008 but his cronies still hold many of the key levers of power, especially in the all-crucial military, security and intelligence agencies. They continue to call the shots and pull the strings, regardless of what the democratic, civilian government says and wants.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Pakistan the oppressor | Peter Tatchell"},{"date": "2010-02-03T16:25:40Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "To many Pakistanis the most shocking aspect of the latest Taliban bombing was not the death toll, or the injuries inflicted on survivors, but the question that it raised: what was a team of American soldiers doing in a tense corner of North West Frontier province?In a way, the attack tugged the veil from a multi-faceted military assistance programme that, while not secret, is rarely publicised \u2013 by either side.President Obama's public aid to \u00adPakistan is transparent: $1.5bn a year for the next five years, mainly to boost the civilian government. But behind the scenes the US is engaged in other ways. Over the past decade it has given over $12bn in cash directly to the \u00admilitary to subsidise the costs of fighting the Taliban and al-Qaida. The programme to train the Frontier Corps, which the killed \u00adsoldiers were involved with, is \u00adestimated to be worth $400m more over several years.Generously provisioned counter-narcotics programmes operate along the Afghan border, funding everything from wells to schools. In Islamabad military contractors \u2013 usually retired army personnel \u2013 are paid to advise the army, discreetly working out of suburban houses. All this is hugely sensitive. Public opinion in Pakistan is overwhelmingly hostile to American \"interference\".Last year a media furore erupted over the role of the contractor Blackwater, which vocal right-wing commentators believed was part of a covert plot to steal the country's nuclear weapons.The Taliban played on that fear yesterday with a spokesman describing the bomb as \"revenge for the blasts carried out by Blackwater in Pakistan\".The critics are backed by public opinion. A survey last October found that 80% of Pakistanis rejected American assistance in fighting the Taliban.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Barack Obama", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Obama's silent war shocks Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-02-04T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Yes, there is a secret war going on in Pakistan, and it is one George W Bush should have started nine years ago. After the US abandoned Afghanistan following Soviet withdrawal in 1989, Pakistan supported Islamist groups in a bid to secure a pro-Islamabad government in Kabul. When Bush went into Afghanistan in 2001 with no plan other than to kick out the Taliban, he also threw billions of dollars at Pakistan to help in the \"war on terror\".Islamabad, however, did nothing to root out Islamist radicals near the border with Afghanistan, nor did it spend the $12bn on developing governance. Instead, the Pakistani government bought equipment such as F-16s to use in a war against India. Why the Bush administration allowed this to happen by selling them the equipment is beyond imagination.It became pretty apparent a few years ago that it did not matter what Nato forces did in Afghanistan if the Taliban were allowed to operate freely in Pakistan. If the Quetta Shura \u2013 the Taliban command based in the Pakistani city of Quetta \u2013 and other Taliban bases in remote parts of Baluchistan, for example, were not eradicated, then sending more troops to Afghanistan was pointless. Withdrawing international forces from Afghanistan also won't solve the problem, because the Taliban forces would then just return to dig into Afghanistan to oust the current government. Given what the Taliban allowed to occur when they were last in power this is an unacceptable option for Washington, London and the rest of Nato. Furthermore, despite all the problems in Afghanistan, the current government is far more popular today with the average Afghan than were the Taliban.The problems are multiple. The civilian government is too weak to take on the Taliban on its own. Some segments of the Pakistani military actually support the Taliban. They see the Taliban as a way to ensure a friendly government in Kabul, necessary for strategic depth in a war against India. If the US was to reduce the power of the Taliban, the situation in Pakistan needed to be addressed. Assassination of Taliban leaders using drones began under Bush and the programme quite rightly accelerated under Obama. So far in 2010 there have been a dozen drone strikes \u2013 a large increase on the average for 2009, which was about one per week.The presence of US forces on the ground is rightly more contentious. But US forces, as well as British SAS forces, have been operating in Pakistan at various points for years. Initially this was without authorisation from the Pakistani government and often because of mistrust between US and Pakistan forces. But after this most recent attack both Washington and Islamabad have to grudgingly admit that they are working closely with each other. Islamabad has been loth to admit the extent to which US forces are helping the Pakistani military with counter-insurgency training, never mind the fact that US forces are at times engaging in operations within Pakistani territory. Given that 80% of Pakistanis reject American assistance in fighting the Taliban, it was perhaps a wise move to keep the issue quiet.Ultimately the \"secret war\" in Pakistan represents an alternative model to Bush's very public \"war on terror\". Bush used the war on terror as a rhetorical tool to terrorise Americans into supporting a massive, ineffective global war abroad while taking away their civil rights at home. Obama and his administration have articulated a much more nuanced policy that does not reduce every actor to a \"terrorist\". It does not utilise grand rhetoric that elevates \"terrorists\" to the principal threat facing the US. It pushes them into dark corners, where they should be. It attempts to distinguish between al-Qaida and Taliban. It seems to classify Taliban into different groups.It is a strategy for using American power effectively, rather than blundering into countries with no clear or definable objectives. Most importantly, it is a strategy that goes after the real problems rather than creating new ones, as was the case in Iraq. It is also one that is backed up with significant amounts of economic and development assistance \u2013 $1.5bn a year for Pakistan alone.I have no doubt that this \"secret war\" being waged by the US with the approval of Islamabad will not be popular with many. At the end of the day, however, the US president is elected to keep the American people safe and to expect an administration not to act in the hope that the situation will just fix itself is fantasy.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "US military", "Nato", "World news", "Drones (military)"], "title": "The secret war in Pakistan | Michael Williams"},{"date": "2010-03-25T16:35:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Like siblings locked in an endless rivalry, India and Pakistan have bickered for well over six decades. Transforming that rivalry into a mature, productive relationship will be difficult. But the consequences of continued animosity will be much worse.Two words punctuate the dangers of one of the world's longest running cold wars: nuclear weapons. For years both countries have militarised at a breathtaking pace based on a shared belief that the other may attack at any moment. Although the international community regularly calls for a scale-back of forces in the heavily fortified Indo-Pak border, many of the same nations, spearheaded by the United States and Russia, have been happy to sell billions of dollars' worth of deadly weaponry to India and Pakistan, escalating the risks and magnitude of any future conflict.Such hypocrisy is compounded by the fact that most citizens in the subcontinent remain desperately poor and deeply frustrated by generations of neglect and exploitation by elites to whom they are invisible except when it is politically expedient. Politicians opportunistically drum up jingoistic diatribes, complete with rent-a-crowd protesters, against our neighbours, who can be conveniently blamed for everything, but mostly terrorism. It doesn't help that India and Pakistan have gone to war on four occasions and have a history of supporting violent insurgencies in each other's territory.The sad irony is that we Desis remain bound at the cultural hip \u2013 be it our love for cricket, Bollywood and Pakistani tele-dramas, or class consciousness. Travel restrictions mean only a handful of us ever get to meet one another, creating a dangerous isolation that feeds racist stereotypes and turns dialogue into a political liability.Practicalities have meant that diplomatic back channels have remained open, even in the darkest of days that followed the murderous rampage through Mumbai in 2008 or the attack on the Indian parliament in 2001. But along with terrorism, regional pretensions have stymied conciliation. Both India and Pakistan have strived to be ever more incorporated into the American imperial project at the expense of the other. Both complain that the US favours the other at their expense. As you read this, a high-level Pakistani delegation is in Washington trying to convince the Obama administration to endorse a civilian nuclear energy programme akin to that it has already reached with India. For their part, Indian lobbyists argue that US reliance on Pakistan for its strategy in Afghanistan sidelines India's successful trade and development approach to stabilising that troubled country.If there are any silver linings amid the grey clouds of competition, it is the fact that normalising relations would be a boon for business in both countries. This is greatly hampered, however, by the lack of an effective business lobby in Pakistan \u2013 like everything else here, the economy is firmly dominated by generals. When Pakistan recently signed a gas pipeline deal with Iran, the world's second largest supplier, India was notable by its absence. India was originally part of the venture only to withdraw owing to its present frosty relationship with Pakistan.Much of that frost comes from the snowy peaks of Jammu and Kashmir, the Himalayan region India and Pakistan have fought three wars over. Resolving this dispute is pivotal to normalising relations, but observers on both sides of the border are unanimously pessimistic this will occur in the foreseeable future. It is \"not clear who can sell\" peace in Kashmir, says Dr Harsh Pant from Kings College. Only an Indian government led by the rightwing BJP, Pant argues, could accept the kind of overture from Pakistan that in 2007 nearly commenced concrete steps towards resolving the dispute because voters trust it more on national security issues. In opposition, however, the BJP has been happy to score political points against the current Congress-led government, claiming its overtures to Pakistan represent appeasement of the enemy. Civilian observers in Pakistan are sceptical their army would ever endorse any such move because the Kashmir issue is its raison d'\u00eatre.Civilian leaders in both countries, and particularly India's prime minister Manmohan Singh, have pushed for continued talks between officials from their elected civilian governments. \"Dialogue is the only way forward\" says Indian analyst Kanti Bajpai, because \"everything else India has tried\", including the threat of war following the 2001 Indian parliament attack, has failed to change the dynamic. The perennial problem is the subservience of Pakistan's civilian government to military planners in Rawalpindi. Sadly, Pakistan's president Asif Zardari has proved incapable of breaking that imbalance. But, says Kamran Shafi from Dawn newspaper, it would help Pakistan's civilian leaders if India were to \"draw down its [troop levels] in Kashmir\" and maintain government to government dialogue as it has done.It may seem simplistic, but building relationships is the key to peace in the subcontinent in the foreseeable future. Even now our expatriates freely mingle abroad at universities and in professional circles. Our retired military men routinely swap war stories over bottles of aged scotch whiskey in international capitals. Despite the barriers, the informal relationships we forge are, in the words of one Indian correspondent recently returned from Pakistan, \"the key to peace\". To achieve peace, the subcontinent's largest siblings must grow out of old rivalries.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nuclear weapons", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "Can India and Pakistan find friendship? | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-03-25T11:42:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two men have been arrested in Pakistan over the kidnapping of the British boy Sahil Saeed.Sahil was reunited with his family in Oldham on Friday after being taken hostage during a raid on his grandmother's house in Jhelum, in the Punjab province.Pakistani police confirmed at a press conference in Jhelum today that they had detained two members of the gang suspected of the kidnapping. The suspects, their faces covered by hoods, were paraded before the press and allowed to speak to reporters. Police said the gang was wanted in connection with the murders of up to 22\u00a0people.\"This is a very dangerous gang. We are after two more of them,\" the regional police chief, Aslam Tareen, said. adding that the kidnapping was opportunistic.One of the kidnapping suspects, said to be the mastermind, told journalists he and the other men had only intended to steal goods from the home of Sahil's grandmother, but they decided to abduct the five-year-old when they saw his British passport.Tareen did not disclose when or where the men were arrested, but said officers had recovered a range of weapons, including grenades, rockets, bombs, machine guns and pistols, which were on display.Raja Naqqash Saeed, Sahil's father, rang the police during the press conference, and was put on speaker phone as he thanked officers and reported that his son was doing well.Five people were arrested in France and Spain last week after an elaborate operation involving police in both countries. Officers tracked two Pakistani men and a Romanian woman who had collected a \u00a3110,000 ransom payment from Sahil's father, before arresting them near Barcelona. Two other people were arrested in Paris.Police are seeking the extradition of the two Pakistani men arrested in Spain.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Sahil Saeed kidnap suspects arrested in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-03-22T17:53:59Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan wants the US to provide it with nuclear technology for a civilian energy programme and is to push the Obama administration this week for a deal.Islamabad seeks a civilian nuclear deal to mirror the package granted to India by George Bush, a proposal that would prove contentious in Washington, given Pakistan's uneven record on combating extremist groups and its sale of nuclear technology to states hostile to the west, led by the former head of its programme, Dr Abdul Qadeer Khan.A spokesman for Pakistan's ministry of foreign affairs, Abdul Basit, said today: \"Pakistan is an energy-deficit country and we're looking for all sources, including nuclear, to meeting our requirements.\"A team led by Pakistan's foreign minister that includes the country's army commander and spy chief is due to arrive in Washington on Wednesday for meetings with their US counterparts, including Hillary Clinton, the secretary of state, in an effort to relaunch dialogue between the two allies. Afghanistan and help for Pakistan's near-bankrupt economy will also be on the agenda.Many experts believe Pakistan holds the key to stabilising Afghanistan and it is trying to position itself as a sole conduit to talk to the Taliban.The US meetings, are designed to restart talks that were last held in 2008.Pakistan believes it has suffered from the violent fallout of US-led intervention in neighbouring Afghanistan and requires further assistance, despite a recent $7.5bn (\u00a35bn) US aid injection.A civilian nuclear deal, which would provide technology and fuel for power plants, could be the carrot required for Pakistan to finally cut its ties to jihad groups. A variety of incentives since 2001, including military equipment and civilian aid, have not worked, say experts.Christine Fair, an assistant professor at Georgetown University in Washington, said: \"We need a big idea for Pakistan, to transform it from a source of insecurity for the region to a country committed to eliminating terrorism and ensuring that nuclear proliferation doesn't happen again.\"We're trying to get Pakistan to do things that are in our strategic interests but not in theirs.\"Pakistan craves a nuclear deal because it aspires to parity with India, say analysts.It bristles with indignation over the perceived special treatment accorded to India, which it believes has upset the regional balance of power in South Asia.Prof Shaun Gregory, director of the Pakistan security research unit at Bradford University, said: \"Through the deal, India became a de facto member of the nuclear club and Pakistan doesn't understand why it wasn't offered the same thing. Pakistan has to position itself as an equal to India.\"While Pakistan and India used to be bracketed together, Pakistan is now lumped in with Afghanistan under \"Af-Pak\", a diplomatic relegation, while India is lauded as a growing power.Pakistan's past record of nuclear proliferation hangs over it, especially as its renegade scientist, Abdul Qadeer Khan, continues to make revelations about his secret arms sales. Khan was placed under house arrest in 2004 but has since been released.David Albright, a former UN weapons inspector who is president of Institute for Science and International Security, an independent thinktank in Washington, said: \"Pakistan has a chance (for a civil nuclear deal) but it has to overcome some pretty serious roads. If there was a trial of AQ Khan and he was jailed, that would help.\"A US-Pakistan deal could take several years to hammer out. The US-India agreement has not been not finalised, more than five years after negotiations began.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan pushes US for nuclear technology deal"},{"date": "2010-03-16T05:54:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The five-year-old British boy kidnapped on holiday in Pakistan nearly two weeks ago has been found, British officials and his family confirmed today.Sahil Saeed was snatched from a house in the Punjab region of the country on 4 March, after robbers held his family hostage at gunpoint.He is believed to have been recovered by police after being dumped by kidnappers in Kharian, about 40km from Jhelum the town in the Punjab province where he was taken.\"Sahil is in police custody,\" said the boy's grandfather Raja Basharat, speaking to Pakistani media. \"God willing, they will bring him top our house. The whole family has gathered here waiting.\"Sahil, from Oldham, was on holiday with his father Raja Naqqash Saeed, visiting family in Jhelum, when robbers broke into the house and took the boy away.The British High Commission in Islamabad said today he had been released and was safe, describing his recovery as \"fantastic news\".\"It brings to an end the traumatic ordeal faced by Sahil Saeed's family,\" said Adam Thomson, the British High Commissioner in Islamabad.\"I would like to praise the high level of cooperation between the UK and Pakistani authorities and in particular I would like to thank the Jhelum police for their role in bringing about the safe return of Sahil.\"Rana Sanaullah, the provincial law minister, said there had never previously been so much government effort put into such a kidnapping case. He said that Pakistani intelligence were also involved in the boy's recovery.Sanaullah added, without explaining further: \"He (Sahil) was safe and sound for the last four to five days. It was just a question of (securing) his custody.\"Last week Sanaullah had mistakenly announced that Sahil had been recovered, mixing up the case with that of another kidnapped boy.xRaiders had struck as the pair were preparing to take a taxi to the airport for their flight home to the UK.The kidnappers originally set a deadline of noon the next day for the money to be delivered.After Sahil was taken, several men - including a taxi driver - were arrested.His family suffered frustrations during the investigation, after Pakistani authorities said on several occasions they were close to securing the boy's release.Sahil's mother, Akila Naqqash, begged for the safe return of her son back home in Oldham, telling the kidnappers at one point: \"I just want my son back. All is forgiven, I will forgive you.\"Naqqash Saeed returned to the UK at the start of last week, despite reports police in Pakistan wanted him to stay in the country as a witness.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Kidnapped British boy found safe in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-03-14T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "What exactly is Pakistan all about? The international media will tell you it's one of the most dangerous places on earth, beset by sectarian warfare and religious extremism. Well-heeled Pakistanis beg to differ. Their country, they say, is made up of an irrepressible population that likes to buy the latest fashions, listen to the latest music and read poetry about mysticism.In reality, Pakistan is both of those things and many more in between. The country has spent most of its existence ruled by military dictators, but each of them was regularly lampooned in newspaper cartoons. Today, it has a largely rural and conservative society but one of the country's most popular talk show hosts is a Dame Edna-style transvestite. It has a politically engaged population that tunes into the many current affairs programmes broadcast on more than 70 private channels with enough regularity to make Pakistani news media one of the few in the world to turn a profit. Its largest media group has spearheaded an attack on the perceived corruption of politicians with a ferocity that makes the MPs' expenses scandal in the UK pale in comparison.Many Pakistanis distrust western intentions, but that doesn't mean helping Pakistan involves battling the country's character. Pakistan's greatest strengths contribute to its most pressing problems. A governing ideology inherited from the British still values a free press and independent civil society. At the same time, a relatively hands-off approach to religion has allowed local extremists to build extensive local infrastructure with outside funding. As the world now knows, that extremism was nurtured and exploited by whisky-loving generals (with the tacit support of western powers) for short-term gain and has now turned against the state.Extremism is not just limited to the Taliban in the North West Frontier Province (NWFP) but is bleeding into the rest of society. In a restaurant tucked away in a corner of Islamabad's upscale shopping district I met a 20-something Pakistani friend with an encyclopaedic knowledge of rap lyrics and Indian movie starlets. After ordering a beer from the restaurant's illicit stash, he told me why he thought his more conservative relatives held the answer to Pakistan's social and economic problems. \"In my uncle's family the women cover their faces and they have thrown out their television, banned music and disconnected the internet \u2026 They had the strength to follow Islam properly. I wish I had. If we all did, Pakistan would no longer be weak,\" he said.Yet many Pakistanis oppose this sort of outlook. And they aren't just the rich, insulated and western-educated. In Attock, a small village on the border of Punjab and NWFP, I met local people who had decided that the growing extremism they were witnessing amongst their young men was down to the serious lack of educational opportunities, social services and proper Islamic knowledge. They are working on building a girls' school, a hospital and a mosque with a teacher capable of challenging the cult of suicide bombings and the ideology of religiously sanctioned hate. However, despite America's commitment to provide $7.5bn to strengthen Pakistani civil society over the next five years, the villagers of Attock \u2013 who lack the right connections \u2013 have been unable to find anyone to help them with their project.For the last five months, I have been working in Pakistan on a project to support the many elements of Pakistan's society who believe that hating other religions or different Islamic communities is against the nature of Islam. Our project, Karvaan-e-Amn (Caravan of Peace) has its work cut out, not because its message its alien, but because we are trying to argue against an ideology that has been purposely built up over 30 years with millions of dollars worth of foreign funding.Pakistan's future is far from decided. It needs help to become a peaceful, prosperous and stable country, and those who stand ready to assist will find allies from across its diverse society. They might also be surprised by a nation that dearly wants to prove wrong its portrayal in the international media.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "In search of the real Pakistan | Amil Khan"},{"date": "2010-03-14T19:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "'I bet you didn't think there were places like this in Pakistan?\" my cousin asked, waving the first glowstick I had seen in a decade. I had come on a family holiday to introduce my fiance to Pakistan, and somehow we had ended up at an all-night rave in a farmhouse outside Lahore. Only gun-toting guards and sleepy drivers waiting for their teenage charges gave away the party.I had been worried about how my English boyfriend would cope with his first visit to the subcontinent and the huge number of relatives he needed to meet before our wedding in August. He was more worried about being a tourist in what the Economist has decreed the \"most dangerous country in the world\", and the fact that my mum had (half-jokingly) refused to pay any ransom if he was kidnapped.It's true Pakistan isn't trouble-free. During celebrations for the Prophet's birthday, fears of sectarian violence kept us indoors. Just a few days after we visited the beautiful Mughal city of Lahore, a suicide bomber killed at least 13 people. A week later a six-year-old British boy was kidnapped. And everyone in sprawling, turbulent Karachi, where we were based, seemed to have a story to tell about being mugged at gunpoint.But despite my cousins warning that everyone would assume my fiance was \"from the CIA or Blackwater\", his presence only sparked a flood of people wanting to practise their English. On a trip to the India/Pakistan border to watch a flag-lowering ceremony he ended up the main attraction with crowds of local men desperate to take photographs of this exotic visitor.In between all the sight-seeing visits there was lots and lots of shopping. My fiance sent some desperate texts when he was led off to buy his wedding outfit, a sherwani (collarless coat) over baggy trousers. \"Help!\" came his message. \"They're trying to buy me a turban and a coat covered in diamant\u00e9.\" Meanwhile, I fretted over sari designs.Finally my cousins showed us the side of Pakistan that is missed by the headlines of terrorist training camps and religious extremists: the constant round of parties, dances \u2013 and, of course, glowsticks.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pakistan holidays", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "How I introduced my fiance to Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-01-28T20:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A series of massacres of peaceful protesters by Pakistani security forces look set to sink hopes of a settlement deal between the government in Islamabad and Baloch nationalists who are campaigning for self-rule. There are fears that the sinister, shadowy Pakistani military and intelligence agencies are behind these killings, in a deliberate attempt to sabotage the reconciliation package put forward by the government of President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani.On 15 January, at least two Baloch political activists were shot dead and four others seriously wounded after Pakistani security forces opened fire on a peaceful protest organised by the Baloch Students Organisation (BSO) in the Khuzdar district of Balochistan. The rally had been called to protest against the recent murder of Baloch citizens in Karachi and the launching of a new military crackdown in Pakistani annexed and occupied Balochistan.The shootings are the latest of many killings of Baloch protesters and nationalist leaders. They've been targeted because of their support for the six-decades-long campaign of resistance against Pakistan's invasion and subjugation of their homeland.In September last year, Pakistani forces opened fire on a public gathering at Tump High School in Balochistan, killing a 20-year-old political activist, Mukhtar Baloch, and wounding 27 others, including four women and a six-year-old child. Five members of the BSO were arrested at the scene and taken to unknown locations. Watch this mobile phone footage of the attack \u2013 the shooting begins just over four minutes into the film.A similar Pakistani military assault on a peaceful Baloch rally took place in January 2009 in Turbat. A month later at Dashte Goran the army attacked a wedding party, killing 13 people, including the bride, groom, six family members and the wedding officiator. A total of 21 people were injured \u2013 the majority of them women.Rasool Bux Mengal, joint secretary of the Baloch National Movement (BNM), was abducted from Uthal last August. His tortured dead body, slashed and covered in cigarette burns, was found hanging from a tree. The intention was clear: to terrorise and intimidate the Baloch people. Mengal was the second BNM leader murdered in the last year. In April 2009, the body of Ghulam Mohammad, chair of the BNM, was found partly decomposed in a vat of toxic chemicals.In October last year, Baloch medical students were beaten up and arrested by Pakistani forces in a raid on the Bolan Medical College. The same month, 11 innocent civilians, including women and children, were killed in the Dera Bugti district by Pakistan army bombardments.Little wonder then that Baloch nationalist leaders have rejected the latest peace and reconciliation package proposed by the government in Islamabad. They cite the ongoing military repression and the inadequate nature of the proposals.At first glance, the \"Rahe-i- Haqooq Balochistan\" deal doesn't seem unreasonable. It offers a cessation in military operations, a ban on the construction of new army garrisons (although existing ones would remain), the release of most (not all) political detainees and a payment of $1.4bn in gas royalties, spread over 12 years.Baloch nationalists say the offer does not give the people of Balochistan control over their own natural resources or a fair price for them. Moreover, of the 4,000 Baloch people who have been arrested and disappeared, only a handful have been released since the democratic civilian government of Prime Minister Gilani was elected in 2008.The torture of Baloch rights campaigners remains routine and widespread. Promises of de-militarisation are contradicted by continued military operations, attacks on civilian targets and by the building of more police and military garrisons in Balochistan, including a 62% increase in police stations and a 100% increase in paramilitary checkpoints.Baloch human rights groups report that the kidnapping and torture of peaceful, lawful Baloch activists continues unabated. Indeed, the Pakistani government itself has admitted that in 2009 at least 1,102 people were seized by the security forces in Balochistan and disappeared. In recent years, an estimated 80,000 Baloch people have been displaced by Pakistan's military attacks.These attacks have been aided and abetted by military supplies from the UK, including small arms, artillery, helicopter components and military communications equipment. The US has sold the Pakistani military billions in arms, including F-16 attack aircraft, and Bell and Cobra attack helicopters, which have been used against the people of Balochistan.Rejecting Islamabad's proposals, nationalist leaders such as Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri and Akhtar Mengal, leader of the Balochistan National Party and a former chief minister of Balochistan, argue that the deal would not ensure genuine autonomy and self-rule. They see it as a way of continuing the Pakistani colonisation of their homeland.Indeed, if the government in Islamabad has a genuine intention to negotiate a settlement, why has it taken nearly two years to put forward these proposals and why are they so inadequate and qualified?The 1973 constitution of Pakistan promised complete provincial autonomy for Balochistan within 10 years. It never happened. Democratically elected Baloch chief ministers who have tried to defend the interests of the people of Balochistan have been sacked by Islamabad. The current chief minister, Aslam Raisani, has limited authority and can be overruled at any time by the federal government and the military top brass if he steps out of line.Even if the government of Pakistan had good intentions, its options are limited. Whatever President Zardari and Prime Minister Gilani may want to happen in Balochistan, they are in office but not truly in power. They are the public face of a Pakistani state that is beholden to more powerful forces \u2013 the Pakistani military and intelligence services, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) and Military Intelligence (MI). Together with the army, these intelligence services are the real power in Pakistan. They are implicated in six decades of disappearances, torture, detention without trial and extra-judicial killings in Balochistan.The former dictator and general, Pervez Musharaff, may have been ousted from the presidency in 2008 but his cronies still hold many of the key levers of power, especially in the all-crucial military, security and intelligence agencies. They continue to call the shots and pull the strings, regardless of what the democratic, civilian government says and wants.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Pakistan the oppressor | Peter Tatchell"},{"date": "2010-02-03T16:25:40Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "To many Pakistanis the most shocking aspect of the latest Taliban bombing was not the death toll, or the injuries inflicted on survivors, but the question that it raised: what was a team of American soldiers doing in a tense corner of North West Frontier province?In a way, the attack tugged the veil from a multi-faceted military assistance programme that, while not secret, is rarely publicised \u2013 by either side.President Obama's public aid to \u00adPakistan is transparent: $1.5bn a year for the next five years, mainly to boost the civilian government. But behind the scenes the US is engaged in other ways. Over the past decade it has given over $12bn in cash directly to the \u00admilitary to subsidise the costs of fighting the Taliban and al-Qaida. The programme to train the Frontier Corps, which the killed \u00adsoldiers were involved with, is \u00adestimated to be worth $400m more over several years.Generously provisioned counter-narcotics programmes operate along the Afghan border, funding everything from wells to schools. In Islamabad military contractors \u2013 usually retired army personnel \u2013 are paid to advise the army, discreetly working out of suburban houses. All this is hugely sensitive. Public opinion in Pakistan is overwhelmingly hostile to American \"interference\".Last year a media furore erupted over the role of the contractor Blackwater, which vocal right-wing commentators believed was part of a covert plot to steal the country's nuclear weapons.The Taliban played on that fear yesterday with a spokesman describing the bomb as \"revenge for the blasts carried out by Blackwater in Pakistan\".The critics are backed by public opinion. A survey last October found that 80% of Pakistanis rejected American assistance in fighting the Taliban.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Barack Obama", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Obama's silent war shocks Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-02-04T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Yes, there is a secret war going on in Pakistan, and it is one George W Bush should have started nine years ago. After the US abandoned Afghanistan following Soviet withdrawal in 1989, Pakistan supported Islamist groups in a bid to secure a pro-Islamabad government in Kabul. When Bush went into Afghanistan in 2001 with no plan other than to kick out the Taliban, he also threw billions of dollars at Pakistan to help in the \"war on terror\".Islamabad, however, did nothing to root out Islamist radicals near the border with Afghanistan, nor did it spend the $12bn on developing governance. Instead, the Pakistani government bought equipment such as F-16s to use in a war against India. Why the Bush administration allowed this to happen by selling them the equipment is beyond imagination.It became pretty apparent a few years ago that it did not matter what Nato forces did in Afghanistan if the Taliban were allowed to operate freely in Pakistan. If the Quetta Shura \u2013 the Taliban command based in the Pakistani city of Quetta \u2013 and other Taliban bases in remote parts of Baluchistan, for example, were not eradicated, then sending more troops to Afghanistan was pointless. Withdrawing international forces from Afghanistan also won't solve the problem, because the Taliban forces would then just return to dig into Afghanistan to oust the current government. Given what the Taliban allowed to occur when they were last in power this is an unacceptable option for Washington, London and the rest of Nato. Furthermore, despite all the problems in Afghanistan, the current government is far more popular today with the average Afghan than were the Taliban.The problems are multiple. The civilian government is too weak to take on the Taliban on its own. Some segments of the Pakistani military actually support the Taliban. They see the Taliban as a way to ensure a friendly government in Kabul, necessary for strategic depth in a war against India. If the US was to reduce the power of the Taliban, the situation in Pakistan needed to be addressed. Assassination of Taliban leaders using drones began under Bush and the programme quite rightly accelerated under Obama. So far in 2010 there have been a dozen drone strikes \u2013 a large increase on the average for 2009, which was about one per week.The presence of US forces on the ground is rightly more contentious. But US forces, as well as British SAS forces, have been operating in Pakistan at various points for years. Initially this was without authorisation from the Pakistani government and often because of mistrust between US and Pakistan forces. But after this most recent attack both Washington and Islamabad have to grudgingly admit that they are working closely with each other. Islamabad has been loth to admit the extent to which US forces are helping the Pakistani military with counter-insurgency training, never mind the fact that US forces are at times engaging in operations within Pakistani territory. Given that 80% of Pakistanis reject American assistance in fighting the Taliban, it was perhaps a wise move to keep the issue quiet.Ultimately the \"secret war\" in Pakistan represents an alternative model to Bush's very public \"war on terror\". Bush used the war on terror as a rhetorical tool to terrorise Americans into supporting a massive, ineffective global war abroad while taking away their civil rights at home. Obama and his administration have articulated a much more nuanced policy that does not reduce every actor to a \"terrorist\". It does not utilise grand rhetoric that elevates \"terrorists\" to the principal threat facing the US. It pushes them into dark corners, where they should be. It attempts to distinguish between al-Qaida and Taliban. It seems to classify Taliban into different groups.It is a strategy for using American power effectively, rather than blundering into countries with no clear or definable objectives. Most importantly, it is a strategy that goes after the real problems rather than creating new ones, as was the case in Iraq. It is also one that is backed up with significant amounts of economic and development assistance \u2013 $1.5bn a year for Pakistan alone.I have no doubt that this \"secret war\" being waged by the US with the approval of Islamabad will not be popular with many. At the end of the day, however, the US president is elected to keep the American people safe and to expect an administration not to act in the hope that the situation will just fix itself is fantasy.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "US military", "Nato", "World news", "Drones (military)"], "title": "The secret war in Pakistan | Michael Williams"},{"date": "2010-03-25T16:35:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Like siblings locked in an endless rivalry, India and Pakistan have bickered for well over six decades. Transforming that rivalry into a mature, productive relationship will be difficult. But the consequences of continued animosity will be much worse.Two words punctuate the dangers of one of the world's longest running cold wars: nuclear weapons. For years both countries have militarised at a breathtaking pace based on a shared belief that the other may attack at any moment. Although the international community regularly calls for a scale-back of forces in the heavily fortified Indo-Pak border, many of the same nations, spearheaded by the United States and Russia, have been happy to sell billions of dollars' worth of deadly weaponry to India and Pakistan, escalating the risks and magnitude of any future conflict.Such hypocrisy is compounded by the fact that most citizens in the subcontinent remain desperately poor and deeply frustrated by generations of neglect and exploitation by elites to whom they are invisible except when it is politically expedient. Politicians opportunistically drum up jingoistic diatribes, complete with rent-a-crowd protesters, against our neighbours, who can be conveniently blamed for everything, but mostly terrorism. It doesn't help that India and Pakistan have gone to war on four occasions and have a history of supporting violent insurgencies in each other's territory.The sad irony is that we Desis remain bound at the cultural hip \u2013 be it our love for cricket, Bollywood and Pakistani tele-dramas, or class consciousness. Travel restrictions mean only a handful of us ever get to meet one another, creating a dangerous isolation that feeds racist stereotypes and turns dialogue into a political liability.Practicalities have meant that diplomatic back channels have remained open, even in the darkest of days that followed the murderous rampage through Mumbai in 2008 or the attack on the Indian parliament in 2001. But along with terrorism, regional pretensions have stymied conciliation. Both India and Pakistan have strived to be ever more incorporated into the American imperial project at the expense of the other. Both complain that the US favours the other at their expense. As you read this, a high-level Pakistani delegation is in Washington trying to convince the Obama administration to endorse a civilian nuclear energy programme akin to that it has already reached with India. For their part, Indian lobbyists argue that US reliance on Pakistan for its strategy in Afghanistan sidelines India's successful trade and development approach to stabilising that troubled country.If there are any silver linings amid the grey clouds of competition, it is the fact that normalising relations would be a boon for business in both countries. This is greatly hampered, however, by the lack of an effective business lobby in Pakistan \u2013 like everything else here, the economy is firmly dominated by generals. When Pakistan recently signed a gas pipeline deal with Iran, the world's second largest supplier, India was notable by its absence. India was originally part of the venture only to withdraw owing to its present frosty relationship with Pakistan.Much of that frost comes from the snowy peaks of Jammu and Kashmir, the Himalayan region India and Pakistan have fought three wars over. Resolving this dispute is pivotal to normalising relations, but observers on both sides of the border are unanimously pessimistic this will occur in the foreseeable future. It is \"not clear who can sell\" peace in Kashmir, says Dr Harsh Pant from Kings College. Only an Indian government led by the rightwing BJP, Pant argues, could accept the kind of overture from Pakistan that in 2007 nearly commenced concrete steps towards resolving the dispute because voters trust it more on national security issues. In opposition, however, the BJP has been happy to score political points against the current Congress-led government, claiming its overtures to Pakistan represent appeasement of the enemy. Civilian observers in Pakistan are sceptical their army would ever endorse any such move because the Kashmir issue is its raison d'\u00eatre.Civilian leaders in both countries, and particularly India's prime minister Manmohan Singh, have pushed for continued talks between officials from their elected civilian governments. \"Dialogue is the only way forward\" says Indian analyst Kanti Bajpai, because \"everything else India has tried\", including the threat of war following the 2001 Indian parliament attack, has failed to change the dynamic. The perennial problem is the subservience of Pakistan's civilian government to military planners in Rawalpindi. Sadly, Pakistan's president Asif Zardari has proved incapable of breaking that imbalance. But, says Kamran Shafi from Dawn newspaper, it would help Pakistan's civilian leaders if India were to \"draw down its [troop levels] in Kashmir\" and maintain government to government dialogue as it has done.It may seem simplistic, but building relationships is the key to peace in the subcontinent in the foreseeable future. Even now our expatriates freely mingle abroad at universities and in professional circles. Our retired military men routinely swap war stories over bottles of aged scotch whiskey in international capitals. Despite the barriers, the informal relationships we forge are, in the words of one Indian correspondent recently returned from Pakistan, \"the key to peace\". To achieve peace, the subcontinent's largest siblings must grow out of old rivalries.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nuclear weapons", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "Can India and Pakistan find friendship? | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-03-25T11:42:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two men have been arrested in Pakistan over the kidnapping of the British boy Sahil Saeed.Sahil was reunited with his family in Oldham on Friday after being taken hostage during a raid on his grandmother's house in Jhelum, in the Punjab province.Pakistani police confirmed at a press conference in Jhelum today that they had detained two members of the gang suspected of the kidnapping. The suspects, their faces covered by hoods, were paraded before the press and allowed to speak to reporters. Police said the gang was wanted in connection with the murders of up to 22\u00a0people.\"This is a very dangerous gang. We are after two more of them,\" the regional police chief, Aslam Tareen, said. adding that the kidnapping was opportunistic.One of the kidnapping suspects, said to be the mastermind, told journalists he and the other men had only intended to steal goods from the home of Sahil's grandmother, but they decided to abduct the five-year-old when they saw his British passport.Tareen did not disclose when or where the men were arrested, but said officers had recovered a range of weapons, including grenades, rockets, bombs, machine guns and pistols, which were on display.Raja Naqqash Saeed, Sahil's father, rang the police during the press conference, and was put on speaker phone as he thanked officers and reported that his son was doing well.Five people were arrested in France and Spain last week after an elaborate operation involving police in both countries. Officers tracked two Pakistani men and a Romanian woman who had collected a \u00a3110,000 ransom payment from Sahil's father, before arresting them near Barcelona. Two other people were arrested in Paris.Police are seeking the extradition of the two Pakistani men arrested in Spain.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Sahil Saeed kidnap suspects arrested in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-03-22T17:53:59Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan wants the US to provide it with nuclear technology for a civilian energy programme and is to push the Obama administration this week for a deal.Islamabad seeks a civilian nuclear deal to mirror the package granted to India by George Bush, a proposal that would prove contentious in Washington, given Pakistan's uneven record on combating extremist groups and its sale of nuclear technology to states hostile to the west, led by the former head of its programme, Dr Abdul Qadeer Khan.A spokesman for Pakistan's ministry of foreign affairs, Abdul Basit, said today: \"Pakistan is an energy-deficit country and we're looking for all sources, including nuclear, to meeting our requirements.\"A team led by Pakistan's foreign minister that includes the country's army commander and spy chief is due to arrive in Washington on Wednesday for meetings with their US counterparts, including Hillary Clinton, the secretary of state, in an effort to relaunch dialogue between the two allies. Afghanistan and help for Pakistan's near-bankrupt economy will also be on the agenda.Many experts believe Pakistan holds the key to stabilising Afghanistan and it is trying to position itself as a sole conduit to talk to the Taliban.The US meetings, are designed to restart talks that were last held in 2008.Pakistan believes it has suffered from the violent fallout of US-led intervention in neighbouring Afghanistan and requires further assistance, despite a recent $7.5bn (\u00a35bn) US aid injection.A civilian nuclear deal, which would provide technology and fuel for power plants, could be the carrot required for Pakistan to finally cut its ties to jihad groups. A variety of incentives since 2001, including military equipment and civilian aid, have not worked, say experts.Christine Fair, an assistant professor at Georgetown University in Washington, said: \"We need a big idea for Pakistan, to transform it from a source of insecurity for the region to a country committed to eliminating terrorism and ensuring that nuclear proliferation doesn't happen again.\"We're trying to get Pakistan to do things that are in our strategic interests but not in theirs.\"Pakistan craves a nuclear deal because it aspires to parity with India, say analysts.It bristles with indignation over the perceived special treatment accorded to India, which it believes has upset the regional balance of power in South Asia.Prof Shaun Gregory, director of the Pakistan security research unit at Bradford University, said: \"Through the deal, India became a de facto member of the nuclear club and Pakistan doesn't understand why it wasn't offered the same thing. Pakistan has to position itself as an equal to India.\"While Pakistan and India used to be bracketed together, Pakistan is now lumped in with Afghanistan under \"Af-Pak\", a diplomatic relegation, while India is lauded as a growing power.Pakistan's past record of nuclear proliferation hangs over it, especially as its renegade scientist, Abdul Qadeer Khan, continues to make revelations about his secret arms sales. Khan was placed under house arrest in 2004 but has since been released.David Albright, a former UN weapons inspector who is president of Institute for Science and International Security, an independent thinktank in Washington, said: \"Pakistan has a chance (for a civil nuclear deal) but it has to overcome some pretty serious roads. If there was a trial of AQ Khan and he was jailed, that would help.\"A US-Pakistan deal could take several years to hammer out. The US-India agreement has not been not finalised, more than five years after negotiations began.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan pushes US for nuclear technology deal"},{"date": "2010-03-16T05:54:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The five-year-old British boy kidnapped on holiday in Pakistan nearly two weeks ago has been found, British officials and his family confirmed today.Sahil Saeed was snatched from a house in the Punjab region of the country on 4 March, after robbers held his family hostage at gunpoint.He is believed to have been recovered by police after being dumped by kidnappers in Kharian, about 40km from Jhelum the town in the Punjab province where he was taken.\"Sahil is in police custody,\" said the boy's grandfather Raja Basharat, speaking to Pakistani media. \"God willing, they will bring him top our house. The whole family has gathered here waiting.\"Sahil, from Oldham, was on holiday with his father Raja Naqqash Saeed, visiting family in Jhelum, when robbers broke into the house and took the boy away.The British High Commission in Islamabad said today he had been released and was safe, describing his recovery as \"fantastic news\".\"It brings to an end the traumatic ordeal faced by Sahil Saeed's family,\" said Adam Thomson, the British High Commissioner in Islamabad.\"I would like to praise the high level of cooperation between the UK and Pakistani authorities and in particular I would like to thank the Jhelum police for their role in bringing about the safe return of Sahil.\"Rana Sanaullah, the provincial law minister, said there had never previously been so much government effort put into such a kidnapping case. He said that Pakistani intelligence were also involved in the boy's recovery.Sanaullah added, without explaining further: \"He (Sahil) was safe and sound for the last four to five days. It was just a question of (securing) his custody.\"Last week Sanaullah had mistakenly announced that Sahil had been recovered, mixing up the case with that of another kidnapped boy.xRaiders had struck as the pair were preparing to take a taxi to the airport for their flight home to the UK.The kidnappers originally set a deadline of noon the next day for the money to be delivered.After Sahil was taken, several men - including a taxi driver - were arrested.His family suffered frustrations during the investigation, after Pakistani authorities said on several occasions they were close to securing the boy's release.Sahil's mother, Akila Naqqash, begged for the safe return of her son back home in Oldham, telling the kidnappers at one point: \"I just want my son back. All is forgiven, I will forgive you.\"Naqqash Saeed returned to the UK at the start of last week, despite reports police in Pakistan wanted him to stay in the country as a witness.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Kidnapped British boy found safe in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-03-14T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "What exactly is Pakistan all about? The international media will tell you it's one of the most dangerous places on earth, beset by sectarian warfare and religious extremism. Well-heeled Pakistanis beg to differ. Their country, they say, is made up of an irrepressible population that likes to buy the latest fashions, listen to the latest music and read poetry about mysticism.In reality, Pakistan is both of those things and many more in between. The country has spent most of its existence ruled by military dictators, but each of them was regularly lampooned in newspaper cartoons. Today, it has a largely rural and conservative society but one of the country's most popular talk show hosts is a Dame Edna-style transvestite. It has a politically engaged population that tunes into the many current affairs programmes broadcast on more than 70 private channels with enough regularity to make Pakistani news media one of the few in the world to turn a profit. Its largest media group has spearheaded an attack on the perceived corruption of politicians with a ferocity that makes the MPs' expenses scandal in the UK pale in comparison.Many Pakistanis distrust western intentions, but that doesn't mean helping Pakistan involves battling the country's character. Pakistan's greatest strengths contribute to its most pressing problems. A governing ideology inherited from the British still values a free press and independent civil society. At the same time, a relatively hands-off approach to religion has allowed local extremists to build extensive local infrastructure with outside funding. As the world now knows, that extremism was nurtured and exploited by whisky-loving generals (with the tacit support of western powers) for short-term gain and has now turned against the state.Extremism is not just limited to the Taliban in the North West Frontier Province (NWFP) but is bleeding into the rest of society. In a restaurant tucked away in a corner of Islamabad's upscale shopping district I met a 20-something Pakistani friend with an encyclopaedic knowledge of rap lyrics and Indian movie starlets. After ordering a beer from the restaurant's illicit stash, he told me why he thought his more conservative relatives held the answer to Pakistan's social and economic problems. \"In my uncle's family the women cover their faces and they have thrown out their television, banned music and disconnected the internet \u2026 They had the strength to follow Islam properly. I wish I had. If we all did, Pakistan would no longer be weak,\" he said.Yet many Pakistanis oppose this sort of outlook. And they aren't just the rich, insulated and western-educated. In Attock, a small village on the border of Punjab and NWFP, I met local people who had decided that the growing extremism they were witnessing amongst their young men was down to the serious lack of educational opportunities, social services and proper Islamic knowledge. They are working on building a girls' school, a hospital and a mosque with a teacher capable of challenging the cult of suicide bombings and the ideology of religiously sanctioned hate. However, despite America's commitment to provide $7.5bn to strengthen Pakistani civil society over the next five years, the villagers of Attock \u2013 who lack the right connections \u2013 have been unable to find anyone to help them with their project.For the last five months, I have been working in Pakistan on a project to support the many elements of Pakistan's society who believe that hating other religions or different Islamic communities is against the nature of Islam. Our project, Karvaan-e-Amn (Caravan of Peace) has its work cut out, not because its message its alien, but because we are trying to argue against an ideology that has been purposely built up over 30 years with millions of dollars worth of foreign funding.Pakistan's future is far from decided. It needs help to become a peaceful, prosperous and stable country, and those who stand ready to assist will find allies from across its diverse society. They might also be surprised by a nation that dearly wants to prove wrong its portrayal in the international media.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islam", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "In search of the real Pakistan | Amil Khan"},{"date": "2010-03-14T19:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "'I bet you didn't think there were places like this in Pakistan?\" my cousin asked, waving the first glowstick I had seen in a decade. I had come on a family holiday to introduce my fiance to Pakistan, and somehow we had ended up at an all-night rave in a farmhouse outside Lahore. Only gun-toting guards and sleepy drivers waiting for their teenage charges gave away the party.I had been worried about how my English boyfriend would cope with his first visit to the subcontinent and the huge number of relatives he needed to meet before our wedding in August. He was more worried about being a tourist in what the Economist has decreed the \"most dangerous country in the world\", and the fact that my mum had (half-jokingly) refused to pay any ransom if he was kidnapped.It's true Pakistan isn't trouble-free. During celebrations for the Prophet's birthday, fears of sectarian violence kept us indoors. Just a few days after we visited the beautiful Mughal city of Lahore, a suicide bomber killed at least 13 people. A week later a six-year-old British boy was kidnapped. And everyone in sprawling, turbulent Karachi, where we were based, seemed to have a story to tell about being mugged at gunpoint.But despite my cousins warning that everyone would assume my fiance was \"from the CIA or Blackwater\", his presence only sparked a flood of people wanting to practise their English. On a trip to the India/Pakistan border to watch a flag-lowering ceremony he ended up the main attraction with crowds of local men desperate to take photographs of this exotic visitor.In between all the sight-seeing visits there was lots and lots of shopping. My fiance sent some desperate texts when he was led off to buy his wedding outfit, a sherwani (collarless coat) over baggy trousers. \"Help!\" came his message. \"They're trying to buy me a turban and a coat covered in diamant\u00e9.\" Meanwhile, I fretted over sari designs.Finally my cousins showed us the side of Pakistan that is missed by the headlines of terrorist training camps and religious extremists: the constant round of parties, dances \u2013 and, of course, glowsticks.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pakistan holidays", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "How I introduced my fiance to Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-03-04T13:14:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A five-year-old British boy kidnapped in Pakistan is being held to ransom for \u00a3100,000. Sahil Saeed from Oldham, Greater Manchester, was taken from the Punjab region this morning after the family was held captive and robbed by four men armed with guns and hand grenades.Sahil had been staying with his grandmother in the city of Jhelum and was due to return home today, the British high commission in Islamabad said.Sahil's father, Raja Naqqash Saeed, said his family were beaten and kicked during a six-hour ordeal that began when men broke into the house last night.\"They took me into the separate room and they tortured me,\" he told Sky News. \"They said: 'We will take your son and you will have to pay \u00a3100,000.'\"They took my son. They were fully loaded with guns and hand grenades. All Pakistan police know about this, and the British Council.\"Saeed said the kidnappers had demanded the money be paid by noon today.A senior officer, Aslam Tareen, said police had arrested and were questioning the \"prime suspect\" \u2013 the driver of a taxi that came to pick up the family from a house in Jhelum and take them to the airport in Rawalpindi about 75 miles away.\"The moment he [the taxi driver] arrived at the residence he knocked on the door and five persons entered the house. They searched and took away some cash,\" Tareen said.\"While going they picked up this boy, Sahil, and asked the parents to arrange 1 crore rupees and your son will be released.\"He said they received a telephone call \"from somewhere and we are working on it. And God willing, most probably we will get hold of them.\"A spokesman for the British High Commission in Islamabad said the men entered the property at 11pm local time, eventually fleeing with Sahil and some household items.\"The kidnappers held the family at gunpoint overnight,\" he said.\"We cannot confirm details of the ransom amount but the father has said it is \u00a3100,000. All I can say is that we are in touch with the family and the local authorities are currently investigating.\"Speaking from her home in Oldham, Sahil's mother, Akila, described her son as \"just a sweet little boy\".\"We can't do anything from here \u2013 all we can do is pray that they will bring my son back,\" she said.She made an appeal to the kidnappers on Sky News. \"What has he done? He's just a five-year-old boy. Bring him back please.\"Akila said the family had \"no chance\" of paying the ransom.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "British boy, 5, kidnapped in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-06-29T06:52:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani reporter Faiz Muhammad Sasoli was killed in a hail of submachine-gunfire on Sunday. He had escaped two previous murder attempts.Sasoli, 27, worked for the Aaj Kal, a daily paper in in the southwestern province of Balochistan, and the Independent News of Pakistan agency. His death brings to six the number of media workers killed in Pakistan since the start of the year.It is thought that a Balochi nationalist group was responsible for the murder, having previously accused Sasoli of being linked to a pro-government militia.Source: Reporters without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Pakistan murdered in hail of gunfire"},{"date": "2010-06-29T06:52:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani reporter Faiz Muhammad Sasoli was killed in a hail of submachine-gunfire on Sunday. He had escaped two previous murder attempts.Sasoli, 27, worked for the Aaj Kal, a daily paper in in the southwestern province of Balochistan, and the Independent News of Pakistan agency. His death brings to six the number of media workers killed in Pakistan since the start of the year.It is thought that a Balochi nationalist group was responsible for the murder, having previously accused Sasoli of being linked to a pro-government militia.Source: Reporters without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Pakistan murdered in hail of gunfire"},{"date": "2010-05-06T18:00:03Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The well-worn maxim that all publicity is good publicity does not immediately spring to mind in Pakistan. But given the country's frontline position in the fight against global terrorism, the involvement of yet another Pakistani in a plot to bomb a major international city will be a boon for everyone in favour of continued war in the \"AfPak\" region. For the rest of us, the alleged attempt by Pakistani-American Faisal Shahzad to bomb New York's Times Square has been a disaster.Whatever goodwill Pakistan had accrued in the bruising conflict against Islamist militancy evaporated when a young man decided to bomb New York. Like the rest of the world, Pakistanis are exasperated by the revelation that one of their own attempted such a foolhardy crime. Remember, for a moment, that Shahzad is not a poor man from the slums but the privileged son of a former senior military officer with a wife and two young children. What did he ever hope to achieve? Did he seriously consider how his actions would affect his young family and future life? Such are the deranged fantasies of the would-be Islamist revolutionary in this case and in numerous others that we may never know about.The blunt calculation is not so uncertain. People globally will not remember the thousands of Pakistanis who have lost their lives in acts of terrorism or counterterrorism \u2013 assuming they knew in the first place \u2013 or the thousands more who have died defending our country and, by extension, the rest of the world. All it takes to reduce Pakistan back to the old \"terror central\" stereotype is a poorly executed bombing attempt by a misguided young man.That message rings clear and loud for all of us who are of Pakistani origin. Shahzad fits a remarkably consistent profile of educated, middle-class young men who have decided to commit acts of terrorism in the west. Thanks to a statistically small fraction of the young male population, the vast majority of us can expect even greater scrutiny at airports and prominent public spaces around the world. American neocon Joe Lieberman has even called for terrorism suspects to be stripped of citizenship \u2013 a suggestion that will be celebrated by conservatives and Islamists alike.Such chauvinism aside, however, there is no clear formula for preventing others like Shahzad. No matter how many profiles are generated at our airports, there is simply no way to predict who will decide to commit an act of terrorism and where, except in the most general terms.It is a measure of how troubled we are in Pakistan that our worst tendencies and most misguided citizens are also our international emblems. Who would immediately associate Pakistan with judicial activism, a rich history of poetry and song, or a good curry? Perhaps many people do, but the spectre of terrorism has a way of overshadowing all that.In the wake of Shahzad's arrest, there will be a tendency in Pakistan to apportion blame to others. Some will even claim he had nothing to do with us, that he was a product of America's ills or even that the CIA was behind it all. But such excuses ring increasingly hollow for most of us now. We are frustrated with this violent distraction from the endless power shortages and cronyism that stifle daily life.In a feeble attempt to remain relevant, the increasingly isolated Pakistan Taliban movement claimed responsibility for the attempted bombing. US investigators believe Shahzad received training in the Waziristan tribal area that is the insurgency's home. But whatever training Shahzad received could not have been very good judging by his poorly constructed bomb and how easily he was identified by the authorities. As with all other foiled bombings we have civilian investigators to thank rather than the multibillion dollar arsenals that have rained death and destruction on Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan over the last decade.Paradoxically, the US and its Nato allies will, nevertheless, use this latest bomb plot as a justification for more wars that will claim more lives. As gruesome as it is to contemplate, the fact is that Shahzad's botched attack is as much a boon for military planners at the Pentagon and in Rawalpindi as it is for fatalistic Islamists who see no other option but to bomb and terrorise their way to the negotiating table.For us ordinary people there is another option. Pakistani Americans have been deeply embarrassed by the Shahzad fiasco. And as with other attempts, a Muslim was instrumental in foiling the Shahzad bombing. In Pakistan, investigators have been quick to interrogate Shahzad's family and several others possibly involved.The lesson from all of this is clear. There must be zero tolerance for the jihadi myth-makers who prey on the impressionable like Shahzad. We owe that much to our rich culture and heritage, not to mention our compatriots who have made and will continue to make the difficult journey to the west in search of a better life.", "tags": ["Times Square bomb", "Pakistan", "World news", "Islam", "US news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Faisal Shahzad"], "title": "Terrorists overshadow the real Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-06-29T06:52:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani reporter Faiz Muhammad Sasoli was killed in a hail of submachine-gunfire on Sunday. He had escaped two previous murder attempts.Sasoli, 27, worked for the Aaj Kal, a daily paper in in the southwestern province of Balochistan, and the Independent News of Pakistan agency. His death brings to six the number of media workers killed in Pakistan since the start of the year.It is thought that a Balochi nationalist group was responsible for the murder, having previously accused Sasoli of being linked to a pro-government militia.Source: Reporters without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Pakistan murdered in hail of gunfire"},{"date": "2010-05-06T18:00:03Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The well-worn maxim that all publicity is good publicity does not immediately spring to mind in Pakistan. But given the country's frontline position in the fight against global terrorism, the involvement of yet another Pakistani in a plot to bomb a major international city will be a boon for everyone in favour of continued war in the \"AfPak\" region. For the rest of us, the alleged attempt by Pakistani-American Faisal Shahzad to bomb New York's Times Square has been a disaster.Whatever goodwill Pakistan had accrued in the bruising conflict against Islamist militancy evaporated when a young man decided to bomb New York. Like the rest of the world, Pakistanis are exasperated by the revelation that one of their own attempted such a foolhardy crime. Remember, for a moment, that Shahzad is not a poor man from the slums but the privileged son of a former senior military officer with a wife and two young children. What did he ever hope to achieve? Did he seriously consider how his actions would affect his young family and future life? Such are the deranged fantasies of the would-be Islamist revolutionary in this case and in numerous others that we may never know about.The blunt calculation is not so uncertain. People globally will not remember the thousands of Pakistanis who have lost their lives in acts of terrorism or counterterrorism \u2013 assuming they knew in the first place \u2013 or the thousands more who have died defending our country and, by extension, the rest of the world. All it takes to reduce Pakistan back to the old \"terror central\" stereotype is a poorly executed bombing attempt by a misguided young man.That message rings clear and loud for all of us who are of Pakistani origin. Shahzad fits a remarkably consistent profile of educated, middle-class young men who have decided to commit acts of terrorism in the west. Thanks to a statistically small fraction of the young male population, the vast majority of us can expect even greater scrutiny at airports and prominent public spaces around the world. American neocon Joe Lieberman has even called for terrorism suspects to be stripped of citizenship \u2013 a suggestion that will be celebrated by conservatives and Islamists alike.Such chauvinism aside, however, there is no clear formula for preventing others like Shahzad. No matter how many profiles are generated at our airports, there is simply no way to predict who will decide to commit an act of terrorism and where, except in the most general terms.It is a measure of how troubled we are in Pakistan that our worst tendencies and most misguided citizens are also our international emblems. Who would immediately associate Pakistan with judicial activism, a rich history of poetry and song, or a good curry? Perhaps many people do, but the spectre of terrorism has a way of overshadowing all that.In the wake of Shahzad's arrest, there will be a tendency in Pakistan to apportion blame to others. Some will even claim he had nothing to do with us, that he was a product of America's ills or even that the CIA was behind it all. But such excuses ring increasingly hollow for most of us now. We are frustrated with this violent distraction from the endless power shortages and cronyism that stifle daily life.In a feeble attempt to remain relevant, the increasingly isolated Pakistan Taliban movement claimed responsibility for the attempted bombing. US investigators believe Shahzad received training in the Waziristan tribal area that is the insurgency's home. But whatever training Shahzad received could not have been very good judging by his poorly constructed bomb and how easily he was identified by the authorities. As with all other foiled bombings we have civilian investigators to thank rather than the multibillion dollar arsenals that have rained death and destruction on Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan over the last decade.Paradoxically, the US and its Nato allies will, nevertheless, use this latest bomb plot as a justification for more wars that will claim more lives. As gruesome as it is to contemplate, the fact is that Shahzad's botched attack is as much a boon for military planners at the Pentagon and in Rawalpindi as it is for fatalistic Islamists who see no other option but to bomb and terrorise their way to the negotiating table.For us ordinary people there is another option. Pakistani Americans have been deeply embarrassed by the Shahzad fiasco. And as with other attempts, a Muslim was instrumental in foiling the Shahzad bombing. In Pakistan, investigators have been quick to interrogate Shahzad's family and several others possibly involved.The lesson from all of this is clear. There must be zero tolerance for the jihadi myth-makers who prey on the impressionable like Shahzad. We owe that much to our rich culture and heritage, not to mention our compatriots who have made and will continue to make the difficult journey to the west in search of a better life.", "tags": ["Times Square bomb", "Pakistan", "World news", "Islam", "US news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Faisal Shahzad"], "title": "Terrorists overshadow the real Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-06-15T19:30:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A report this week from the London School of Economics suggests that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence Agency (ISI) not only funds Taliban fighters in Afghanistan, but is officially represented on the militant movement's leadership council. Many within the Pakistani military remain convinced that supporting Islamist groups helps to expand and secure the country's regional interests. The extremist groups Pakistan once nurtured for its security, however, may ultimately prove to be the instruments of its demise.The LSE report, based on interviews with Taliban commanders, former senior Taliban ministers, and western and Afghan security officials, confirms what has long been an open secret. After the 11 September terror attacks, then president Pervez Musharraf and his military corps commanders decided to ally openly with the Bush administration in the \"war on terror\" and preserve their proxy assets as a hedge against Indian influence.That policy was vividly illustrated last February, when the ISI seized Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, one of the Afghan Taliban's top field commanders and the second in command behind the group's founder, Mullah Muhammad Omar. The ISI also captured two of the Taliban's shadow governors who operated parallel governments in two Afghan provinces. In a limited tactical sense, the abductions were a success \u2013 US leaders pointed to a clear sign of progress in the nearly decade-long campaign and commanders in the field will gain valuable human intelligence to capture more insurgents. The arrests, however, dealt neither a major blow to the Afghan Taliban network, nor represented a \"new level of co-operation\" between American and Pakistani forces in rooting out extremism. Furthermore, Pakistan refused to extradite the apprehended Taliban to Washington. And according to former UN envoy Kai Eide, at the time of his arrest, Mullah Baradar was in communication with the Afghan government, a sign that Pakistan may have sought to thwart substantive peace talks.The Baradar episode reflects the piecemeal co-operation Islamabad has provided in the post-9/11 era to the US. A substantive commitment to US goals will require Pakistan to undertake a significant shift in its strategic priorities \u2013 which will be difficult.Since the country's inception in 1947, the Pakistani military (not the Pakistani people) has apparently believed that its country's very existence depends on supporting violent, extremist groups, not strictly for ideological reasons, but as a means to expand and secure its regional interests. Aside from sponsoring Kashmiri insurrection groups since 1989, the Pakistani military infiltrated Pashtun guerrillas into Indian-held Kashmir in 1947, triggering the first Indo-Pakistan war. The Pakistani military once again attempted to annex Indian-held Kashmir in 1965, setting off the second Indo-Pakistan war. And the military infiltrated regular troops into Kargil in 1999, generating an international crisis in a now nuclear-armed subcontinent.Since 9/11, the Pakistani government has claimed that its military is too ill-equipped and poorly-trained to effectively combat its internal guerrilla insurgency. That may be true, but it's also clear that the militancy plaguing the region is a byproduct of the Pakistani military's self-defeating strategic ambitions. Getting Pakistan to modify its policies will be difficult, since many of the extremists it currently assists have been nurtured by the military for more than 30 years.Today, Pakistan's frontier region along the Afghan border stands fully Talibanised. In strategically located areas of the north, the military continually cedes the state's sovereignty to militants imposing their apocryphal interpretation of sharia law. These events must be understood as the latest in a long list of damaging strategic blunders sponsored by the Pakistani military.In recent months, highly co-ordinated suicide bombings and explosions have rocked the city of Lahore, in the heart of Punjab province. Such bold attacks, some against the homes of Pakistani air force captains and police officials, represent the extent to which militants have turned against the state. The costs of such calamitous policies are self-evident, as the insurgency Pakistan spawned has morphed into a monster that it is unable to control.In this respect, US officials and commentators have focused too heavily on how the clash of competing strategic interests between Islamabad and Washington impacts US interests in Afghanistan. But in order to convince Pakistan to end its long-standing assistance to militants, US leaders must underscore to their Pakistani counterparts that unless they radically alter their policies, their country will continue to be slammed by a heavy dose of cosmic blowback as the militants they support turn against the state.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "Afghanistan", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Why Pakistan must change its priorities | Malou Innocent"},{"date": "2010-06-29T06:52:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani reporter Faiz Muhammad Sasoli was killed in a hail of submachine-gunfire on Sunday. He had escaped two previous murder attempts.Sasoli, 27, worked for the Aaj Kal, a daily paper in in the southwestern province of Balochistan, and the Independent News of Pakistan agency. His death brings to six the number of media workers killed in Pakistan since the start of the year.It is thought that a Balochi nationalist group was responsible for the murder, having previously accused Sasoli of being linked to a pro-government militia.Source: Reporters without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Pakistan murdered in hail of gunfire"},{"date": "2010-05-06T18:00:03Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The well-worn maxim that all publicity is good publicity does not immediately spring to mind in Pakistan. But given the country's frontline position in the fight against global terrorism, the involvement of yet another Pakistani in a plot to bomb a major international city will be a boon for everyone in favour of continued war in the \"AfPak\" region. For the rest of us, the alleged attempt by Pakistani-American Faisal Shahzad to bomb New York's Times Square has been a disaster.Whatever goodwill Pakistan had accrued in the bruising conflict against Islamist militancy evaporated when a young man decided to bomb New York. Like the rest of the world, Pakistanis are exasperated by the revelation that one of their own attempted such a foolhardy crime. Remember, for a moment, that Shahzad is not a poor man from the slums but the privileged son of a former senior military officer with a wife and two young children. What did he ever hope to achieve? Did he seriously consider how his actions would affect his young family and future life? Such are the deranged fantasies of the would-be Islamist revolutionary in this case and in numerous others that we may never know about.The blunt calculation is not so uncertain. People globally will not remember the thousands of Pakistanis who have lost their lives in acts of terrorism or counterterrorism \u2013 assuming they knew in the first place \u2013 or the thousands more who have died defending our country and, by extension, the rest of the world. All it takes to reduce Pakistan back to the old \"terror central\" stereotype is a poorly executed bombing attempt by a misguided young man.That message rings clear and loud for all of us who are of Pakistani origin. Shahzad fits a remarkably consistent profile of educated, middle-class young men who have decided to commit acts of terrorism in the west. Thanks to a statistically small fraction of the young male population, the vast majority of us can expect even greater scrutiny at airports and prominent public spaces around the world. American neocon Joe Lieberman has even called for terrorism suspects to be stripped of citizenship \u2013 a suggestion that will be celebrated by conservatives and Islamists alike.Such chauvinism aside, however, there is no clear formula for preventing others like Shahzad. No matter how many profiles are generated at our airports, there is simply no way to predict who will decide to commit an act of terrorism and where, except in the most general terms.It is a measure of how troubled we are in Pakistan that our worst tendencies and most misguided citizens are also our international emblems. Who would immediately associate Pakistan with judicial activism, a rich history of poetry and song, or a good curry? Perhaps many people do, but the spectre of terrorism has a way of overshadowing all that.In the wake of Shahzad's arrest, there will be a tendency in Pakistan to apportion blame to others. Some will even claim he had nothing to do with us, that he was a product of America's ills or even that the CIA was behind it all. But such excuses ring increasingly hollow for most of us now. We are frustrated with this violent distraction from the endless power shortages and cronyism that stifle daily life.In a feeble attempt to remain relevant, the increasingly isolated Pakistan Taliban movement claimed responsibility for the attempted bombing. US investigators believe Shahzad received training in the Waziristan tribal area that is the insurgency's home. But whatever training Shahzad received could not have been very good judging by his poorly constructed bomb and how easily he was identified by the authorities. As with all other foiled bombings we have civilian investigators to thank rather than the multibillion dollar arsenals that have rained death and destruction on Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan over the last decade.Paradoxically, the US and its Nato allies will, nevertheless, use this latest bomb plot as a justification for more wars that will claim more lives. As gruesome as it is to contemplate, the fact is that Shahzad's botched attack is as much a boon for military planners at the Pentagon and in Rawalpindi as it is for fatalistic Islamists who see no other option but to bomb and terrorise their way to the negotiating table.For us ordinary people there is another option. Pakistani Americans have been deeply embarrassed by the Shahzad fiasco. And as with other attempts, a Muslim was instrumental in foiling the Shahzad bombing. In Pakistan, investigators have been quick to interrogate Shahzad's family and several others possibly involved.The lesson from all of this is clear. There must be zero tolerance for the jihadi myth-makers who prey on the impressionable like Shahzad. We owe that much to our rich culture and heritage, not to mention our compatriots who have made and will continue to make the difficult journey to the west in search of a better life.", "tags": ["Times Square bomb", "Pakistan", "World news", "Islam", "US news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Faisal Shahzad"], "title": "Terrorists overshadow the real Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-06-15T19:30:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A report this week from the London School of Economics suggests that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence Agency (ISI) not only funds Taliban fighters in Afghanistan, but is officially represented on the militant movement's leadership council. Many within the Pakistani military remain convinced that supporting Islamist groups helps to expand and secure the country's regional interests. The extremist groups Pakistan once nurtured for its security, however, may ultimately prove to be the instruments of its demise.The LSE report, based on interviews with Taliban commanders, former senior Taliban ministers, and western and Afghan security officials, confirms what has long been an open secret. After the 11 September terror attacks, then president Pervez Musharraf and his military corps commanders decided to ally openly with the Bush administration in the \"war on terror\" and preserve their proxy assets as a hedge against Indian influence.That policy was vividly illustrated last February, when the ISI seized Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, one of the Afghan Taliban's top field commanders and the second in command behind the group's founder, Mullah Muhammad Omar. The ISI also captured two of the Taliban's shadow governors who operated parallel governments in two Afghan provinces. In a limited tactical sense, the abductions were a success \u2013 US leaders pointed to a clear sign of progress in the nearly decade-long campaign and commanders in the field will gain valuable human intelligence to capture more insurgents. The arrests, however, dealt neither a major blow to the Afghan Taliban network, nor represented a \"new level of co-operation\" between American and Pakistani forces in rooting out extremism. Furthermore, Pakistan refused to extradite the apprehended Taliban to Washington. And according to former UN envoy Kai Eide, at the time of his arrest, Mullah Baradar was in communication with the Afghan government, a sign that Pakistan may have sought to thwart substantive peace talks.The Baradar episode reflects the piecemeal co-operation Islamabad has provided in the post-9/11 era to the US. A substantive commitment to US goals will require Pakistan to undertake a significant shift in its strategic priorities \u2013 which will be difficult.Since the country's inception in 1947, the Pakistani military (not the Pakistani people) has apparently believed that its country's very existence depends on supporting violent, extremist groups, not strictly for ideological reasons, but as a means to expand and secure its regional interests. Aside from sponsoring Kashmiri insurrection groups since 1989, the Pakistani military infiltrated Pashtun guerrillas into Indian-held Kashmir in 1947, triggering the first Indo-Pakistan war. The Pakistani military once again attempted to annex Indian-held Kashmir in 1965, setting off the second Indo-Pakistan war. And the military infiltrated regular troops into Kargil in 1999, generating an international crisis in a now nuclear-armed subcontinent.Since 9/11, the Pakistani government has claimed that its military is too ill-equipped and poorly-trained to effectively combat its internal guerrilla insurgency. That may be true, but it's also clear that the militancy plaguing the region is a byproduct of the Pakistani military's self-defeating strategic ambitions. Getting Pakistan to modify its policies will be difficult, since many of the extremists it currently assists have been nurtured by the military for more than 30 years.Today, Pakistan's frontier region along the Afghan border stands fully Talibanised. In strategically located areas of the north, the military continually cedes the state's sovereignty to militants imposing their apocryphal interpretation of sharia law. These events must be understood as the latest in a long list of damaging strategic blunders sponsored by the Pakistani military.In recent months, highly co-ordinated suicide bombings and explosions have rocked the city of Lahore, in the heart of Punjab province. Such bold attacks, some against the homes of Pakistani air force captains and police officials, represent the extent to which militants have turned against the state. The costs of such calamitous policies are self-evident, as the insurgency Pakistan spawned has morphed into a monster that it is unable to control.In this respect, US officials and commentators have focused too heavily on how the clash of competing strategic interests between Islamabad and Washington impacts US interests in Afghanistan. But in order to convince Pakistan to end its long-standing assistance to militants, US leaders must underscore to their Pakistani counterparts that unless they radically alter their policies, their country will continue to be slammed by a heavy dose of cosmic blowback as the militants they support turn against the state.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "Afghanistan", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Why Pakistan must change its priorities | Malou Innocent"},{"date": "2010-06-13T10:48:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani intelligence is so deeply involved in the arming and funding of the Afghan Taliban that it holds a seat on the militant leadership council and has sent the president, Asif Ali Zardari, to make prison visits to captured leaders, a report by the London School of Economics has said.Researcher Matt Waldman said Pakistani support for the insurgency was \"official\" policy, implemented by the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) spy agency in the form of money, weapons and training.\"Pakistan appears to be playing a double game of astonishing magnitude,\" the report, which cited interviews with unnamed Taliban commanders and western officials, said.An ISI official in Islamabad described the report as \"rubbish\". \"It's not even worth commenting on. It's speculative at best and downright degrading at worst,\" he said.ISI links to the Afghan Taliban have been frequently reported \u2013 but rarely to the extent claimed in the document, which said the spy agency had official representation on the Quetta shura, the 15-man leadership council, based in western Pakistan.Claims of civilian collusion were equally striking. Citing a Taliban source, the report said that, in late March or early April, Zardari met 50 top-ranking Taliban members at a secret prison in Pakistan.According to the report, he told them: \"You are our people, we are friends, and after your release we will of course support you to do your operations.\" Three days later, a dozen Taliban prisoners were released.Farahnaz Ispahani, a media adviser to Zardari, said: \"Not only are these allegations totally unfounded, they are quite outrageous. President Zardari's commitment to fighting terrorism and militancy in all forms is well documented.\"The allegations may heighten tensions between Pakistan, Afghanistan and western countries at a time when the cost of the Afghan war is mounting.Since 2001, thousands of Afghans and 1,800 foreign troops, 295 of them British, have died. The conflict has cost the US government $300bn (\u00a3206bn), with spending now running at $70bn a year.The report, whose findings are based largely on unnamed sources, said Pakistan gives \"extensive support to the insurgency in terms of funding, munitions and supplies\".One Taliban commander said his fighters received $120 per month from Pakistan, while others said the ISI was covering their families' living costs in Pakistan.One interviewee said an ISI official had trained him to make suicide vests and car bombs in South Waziristan in 2005.\"The man was definitely ISI, he told us,\" he was quoted as saying. \"When some of our friends were arrested by the Pakistani authorities, he went and got them freed.\"Other interviewees appeared prone to conspiracy theories. One said the ISI support after 2001 originally came from the US government \u2013 a reflection, the report said, of the $12bn in military aid the US has given Pakistan since 2001.The report also revived allegations of links between Pakistani intelligence and Jalaluddin Haqqani, an al-Qaida linked warlord whose territory stretches into North Waziristan.The report said there was \"apparently a number of small, covert Haqqani bases in North Waziristan and Korram agencies, and Quetta, staffed by serving or former Pakistani military officials. They are often combined with a madrasa, provide a broad-based military training, and include suicide bomber cells\".The controversial document comes at a time of great sensitivity, as regional and western parties to the Afghan conflict jockey for position in anticipation of peace talks with the Taliban.Senior British officials favour negotiations, some Americans believe in fighting, and the government of the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, is increasingly fractured.Last week, the long-time head of Afghan intelligence, Amrullah Saleh, resigned from his post, saying he had become an obstacle to Karzai's plans to negotiate with the militants via Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Pakistan spy agency accused over Taliban"},{"date": "2010-06-29T06:52:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani reporter Faiz Muhammad Sasoli was killed in a hail of submachine-gunfire on Sunday. He had escaped two previous murder attempts.Sasoli, 27, worked for the Aaj Kal, a daily paper in in the southwestern province of Balochistan, and the Independent News of Pakistan agency. His death brings to six the number of media workers killed in Pakistan since the start of the year.It is thought that a Balochi nationalist group was responsible for the murder, having previously accused Sasoli of being linked to a pro-government militia.Source: Reporters without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Pakistan murdered in hail of gunfire"},{"date": "2010-05-06T18:00:03Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The well-worn maxim that all publicity is good publicity does not immediately spring to mind in Pakistan. But given the country's frontline position in the fight against global terrorism, the involvement of yet another Pakistani in a plot to bomb a major international city will be a boon for everyone in favour of continued war in the \"AfPak\" region. For the rest of us, the alleged attempt by Pakistani-American Faisal Shahzad to bomb New York's Times Square has been a disaster.Whatever goodwill Pakistan had accrued in the bruising conflict against Islamist militancy evaporated when a young man decided to bomb New York. Like the rest of the world, Pakistanis are exasperated by the revelation that one of their own attempted such a foolhardy crime. Remember, for a moment, that Shahzad is not a poor man from the slums but the privileged son of a former senior military officer with a wife and two young children. What did he ever hope to achieve? Did he seriously consider how his actions would affect his young family and future life? Such are the deranged fantasies of the would-be Islamist revolutionary in this case and in numerous others that we may never know about.The blunt calculation is not so uncertain. People globally will not remember the thousands of Pakistanis who have lost their lives in acts of terrorism or counterterrorism \u2013 assuming they knew in the first place \u2013 or the thousands more who have died defending our country and, by extension, the rest of the world. All it takes to reduce Pakistan back to the old \"terror central\" stereotype is a poorly executed bombing attempt by a misguided young man.That message rings clear and loud for all of us who are of Pakistani origin. Shahzad fits a remarkably consistent profile of educated, middle-class young men who have decided to commit acts of terrorism in the west. Thanks to a statistically small fraction of the young male population, the vast majority of us can expect even greater scrutiny at airports and prominent public spaces around the world. American neocon Joe Lieberman has even called for terrorism suspects to be stripped of citizenship \u2013 a suggestion that will be celebrated by conservatives and Islamists alike.Such chauvinism aside, however, there is no clear formula for preventing others like Shahzad. No matter how many profiles are generated at our airports, there is simply no way to predict who will decide to commit an act of terrorism and where, except in the most general terms.It is a measure of how troubled we are in Pakistan that our worst tendencies and most misguided citizens are also our international emblems. Who would immediately associate Pakistan with judicial activism, a rich history of poetry and song, or a good curry? Perhaps many people do, but the spectre of terrorism has a way of overshadowing all that.In the wake of Shahzad's arrest, there will be a tendency in Pakistan to apportion blame to others. Some will even claim he had nothing to do with us, that he was a product of America's ills or even that the CIA was behind it all. But such excuses ring increasingly hollow for most of us now. We are frustrated with this violent distraction from the endless power shortages and cronyism that stifle daily life.In a feeble attempt to remain relevant, the increasingly isolated Pakistan Taliban movement claimed responsibility for the attempted bombing. US investigators believe Shahzad received training in the Waziristan tribal area that is the insurgency's home. But whatever training Shahzad received could not have been very good judging by his poorly constructed bomb and how easily he was identified by the authorities. As with all other foiled bombings we have civilian investigators to thank rather than the multibillion dollar arsenals that have rained death and destruction on Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan over the last decade.Paradoxically, the US and its Nato allies will, nevertheless, use this latest bomb plot as a justification for more wars that will claim more lives. As gruesome as it is to contemplate, the fact is that Shahzad's botched attack is as much a boon for military planners at the Pentagon and in Rawalpindi as it is for fatalistic Islamists who see no other option but to bomb and terrorise their way to the negotiating table.For us ordinary people there is another option. Pakistani Americans have been deeply embarrassed by the Shahzad fiasco. And as with other attempts, a Muslim was instrumental in foiling the Shahzad bombing. In Pakistan, investigators have been quick to interrogate Shahzad's family and several others possibly involved.The lesson from all of this is clear. There must be zero tolerance for the jihadi myth-makers who prey on the impressionable like Shahzad. We owe that much to our rich culture and heritage, not to mention our compatriots who have made and will continue to make the difficult journey to the west in search of a better life.", "tags": ["Times Square bomb", "Pakistan", "World news", "Islam", "US news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Faisal Shahzad"], "title": "Terrorists overshadow the real Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-06-15T19:30:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A report this week from the London School of Economics suggests that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence Agency (ISI) not only funds Taliban fighters in Afghanistan, but is officially represented on the militant movement's leadership council. Many within the Pakistani military remain convinced that supporting Islamist groups helps to expand and secure the country's regional interests. The extremist groups Pakistan once nurtured for its security, however, may ultimately prove to be the instruments of its demise.The LSE report, based on interviews with Taliban commanders, former senior Taliban ministers, and western and Afghan security officials, confirms what has long been an open secret. After the 11 September terror attacks, then president Pervez Musharraf and his military corps commanders decided to ally openly with the Bush administration in the \"war on terror\" and preserve their proxy assets as a hedge against Indian influence.That policy was vividly illustrated last February, when the ISI seized Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, one of the Afghan Taliban's top field commanders and the second in command behind the group's founder, Mullah Muhammad Omar. The ISI also captured two of the Taliban's shadow governors who operated parallel governments in two Afghan provinces. In a limited tactical sense, the abductions were a success \u2013 US leaders pointed to a clear sign of progress in the nearly decade-long campaign and commanders in the field will gain valuable human intelligence to capture more insurgents. The arrests, however, dealt neither a major blow to the Afghan Taliban network, nor represented a \"new level of co-operation\" between American and Pakistani forces in rooting out extremism. Furthermore, Pakistan refused to extradite the apprehended Taliban to Washington. And according to former UN envoy Kai Eide, at the time of his arrest, Mullah Baradar was in communication with the Afghan government, a sign that Pakistan may have sought to thwart substantive peace talks.The Baradar episode reflects the piecemeal co-operation Islamabad has provided in the post-9/11 era to the US. A substantive commitment to US goals will require Pakistan to undertake a significant shift in its strategic priorities \u2013 which will be difficult.Since the country's inception in 1947, the Pakistani military (not the Pakistani people) has apparently believed that its country's very existence depends on supporting violent, extremist groups, not strictly for ideological reasons, but as a means to expand and secure its regional interests. Aside from sponsoring Kashmiri insurrection groups since 1989, the Pakistani military infiltrated Pashtun guerrillas into Indian-held Kashmir in 1947, triggering the first Indo-Pakistan war. The Pakistani military once again attempted to annex Indian-held Kashmir in 1965, setting off the second Indo-Pakistan war. And the military infiltrated regular troops into Kargil in 1999, generating an international crisis in a now nuclear-armed subcontinent.Since 9/11, the Pakistani government has claimed that its military is too ill-equipped and poorly-trained to effectively combat its internal guerrilla insurgency. That may be true, but it's also clear that the militancy plaguing the region is a byproduct of the Pakistani military's self-defeating strategic ambitions. Getting Pakistan to modify its policies will be difficult, since many of the extremists it currently assists have been nurtured by the military for more than 30 years.Today, Pakistan's frontier region along the Afghan border stands fully Talibanised. In strategically located areas of the north, the military continually cedes the state's sovereignty to militants imposing their apocryphal interpretation of sharia law. These events must be understood as the latest in a long list of damaging strategic blunders sponsored by the Pakistani military.In recent months, highly co-ordinated suicide bombings and explosions have rocked the city of Lahore, in the heart of Punjab province. Such bold attacks, some against the homes of Pakistani air force captains and police officials, represent the extent to which militants have turned against the state. The costs of such calamitous policies are self-evident, as the insurgency Pakistan spawned has morphed into a monster that it is unable to control.In this respect, US officials and commentators have focused too heavily on how the clash of competing strategic interests between Islamabad and Washington impacts US interests in Afghanistan. But in order to convince Pakistan to end its long-standing assistance to militants, US leaders must underscore to their Pakistani counterparts that unless they radically alter their policies, their country will continue to be slammed by a heavy dose of cosmic blowback as the militants they support turn against the state.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "Afghanistan", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Why Pakistan must change its priorities | Malou Innocent"},{"date": "2010-06-13T10:48:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani intelligence is so deeply involved in the arming and funding of the Afghan Taliban that it holds a seat on the militant leadership council and has sent the president, Asif Ali Zardari, to make prison visits to captured leaders, a report by the London School of Economics has said.Researcher Matt Waldman said Pakistani support for the insurgency was \"official\" policy, implemented by the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) spy agency in the form of money, weapons and training.\"Pakistan appears to be playing a double game of astonishing magnitude,\" the report, which cited interviews with unnamed Taliban commanders and western officials, said.An ISI official in Islamabad described the report as \"rubbish\". \"It's not even worth commenting on. It's speculative at best and downright degrading at worst,\" he said.ISI links to the Afghan Taliban have been frequently reported \u2013 but rarely to the extent claimed in the document, which said the spy agency had official representation on the Quetta shura, the 15-man leadership council, based in western Pakistan.Claims of civilian collusion were equally striking. Citing a Taliban source, the report said that, in late March or early April, Zardari met 50 top-ranking Taliban members at a secret prison in Pakistan.According to the report, he told them: \"You are our people, we are friends, and after your release we will of course support you to do your operations.\" Three days later, a dozen Taliban prisoners were released.Farahnaz Ispahani, a media adviser to Zardari, said: \"Not only are these allegations totally unfounded, they are quite outrageous. President Zardari's commitment to fighting terrorism and militancy in all forms is well documented.\"The allegations may heighten tensions between Pakistan, Afghanistan and western countries at a time when the cost of the Afghan war is mounting.Since 2001, thousands of Afghans and 1,800 foreign troops, 295 of them British, have died. The conflict has cost the US government $300bn (\u00a3206bn), with spending now running at $70bn a year.The report, whose findings are based largely on unnamed sources, said Pakistan gives \"extensive support to the insurgency in terms of funding, munitions and supplies\".One Taliban commander said his fighters received $120 per month from Pakistan, while others said the ISI was covering their families' living costs in Pakistan.One interviewee said an ISI official had trained him to make suicide vests and car bombs in South Waziristan in 2005.\"The man was definitely ISI, he told us,\" he was quoted as saying. \"When some of our friends were arrested by the Pakistani authorities, he went and got them freed.\"Other interviewees appeared prone to conspiracy theories. One said the ISI support after 2001 originally came from the US government \u2013 a reflection, the report said, of the $12bn in military aid the US has given Pakistan since 2001.The report also revived allegations of links between Pakistani intelligence and Jalaluddin Haqqani, an al-Qaida linked warlord whose territory stretches into North Waziristan.The report said there was \"apparently a number of small, covert Haqqani bases in North Waziristan and Korram agencies, and Quetta, staffed by serving or former Pakistani military officials. They are often combined with a madrasa, provide a broad-based military training, and include suicide bomber cells\".The controversial document comes at a time of great sensitivity, as regional and western parties to the Afghan conflict jockey for position in anticipation of peace talks with the Taliban.Senior British officials favour negotiations, some Americans believe in fighting, and the government of the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, is increasingly fractured.Last week, the long-time head of Afghan intelligence, Amrullah Saleh, resigned from his post, saying he had become an obstacle to Karzai's plans to negotiate with the militants via Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Pakistan spy agency accused over Taliban"},{"date": "2010-06-01T16:53:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Mohenjo-daro, a ruined city in what is now Pakistan that contains the last traces of a 4,000-year-old civilisation that flourished on the banks of the river Indus, today entered the modern history books after government meteorologists recorded a temperature of 53.7C (129F). Only Al 'Aziziyah, in Libya (57.8C in 1922), Death valley in California (56.7 in 1913) and Tirat Zvi in Israel (53.9 in 1942) are thought to have been hotter.Temperatures in the nearest town, Larkana, have been only slightly lower in the last week, with 53C recorded last Wednesday. As the temperatures peaked, four people died, including a prisoner serving a life sentence for murder and an elderly woman. Dozens are said to have fainted.The extreme heat was exacerbated by chronic power cuts which have prevented people from using air-conditioning. The electricity has cut out for eight hours each day as part of a severe load-shedding regime that has caused riots in other parts of Pakistan where cities are experiencing a severe heatwave with temperatures of between 43C and 47C.\"It's very tough,\" said M B Kalhoro, a local correspondent for Dawn.com, an online newspaper. \"When the power is out, people just stay indoors all the time.\"The blistering heat now engulfing Pakistan stretches to India where more than 1,000 people have reportedly died of heatstroke or heart attacks in the last two months. Although Europe and China have experienced cooler than average winters, record or well-above average temperatures have been recorded in Tibet and Burma this year.Southern Europe was yesterday rapidly warming after a particularly cool winter. Thirteen provinces in southern Spain, including Andalucia, Murcia and the Canary islands, were put on \"yellow alert\" after meteorologists forecast temperatures rising to 38C (99F) in Cadiz, C\u00f3rdoba, Ja\u00e9n, Malaga and Seville.According to the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA), the national climate monitoring service that measures global temperatures by satellite, 2010 is shaping up to be one of the hottest years on record. The first four months were the hottest ever measured, with record spring temperatures in northern Africa, south Asia and Canada.The global temperature for March was a record 13.5C (56.3F) and average ocean temperatures were also the hottest for any March since record-keeping began in 1880.As a result of high sea surface temperatures, the Atlantic hurricane season, which officially started today is now expected to be one of the most intense in years. Last week NOAA predicted 14 to 23 named storms, including eight to 14 hurricanes, three to seven of which were likely to be \"major\" storms, with winds of at least 111mph. This is compared to an average six-month season of 11 named storms, six of which become hurricanes, two of them major.On Sunday, scientists reported that Africa's Lake Tanganyika, the second deepest freshwater lake in the world, is now at its warmest in 1,500 years, threatening the fishing industry on which several million lives depend. The lake's surface waters, at 26C (78.8F), have reached temperatures that are \"unprecedented since AD500,\" they reported in the journal Nature Geoscience.Some scientists have suggested that the warming experienced around the world this year is strongly linked to warmer than usual currents in the Pacific Ocean, a regular phenomenon known as El Ni\u00f1o. Others say that it is consistent with long-term climate change.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Pakistan", "World news", "Meteorology", "Climate change", "Science", "Climate change", "Environment", "Summer"], "title": "Temperatures reach record high in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-06-29T06:52:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani reporter Faiz Muhammad Sasoli was killed in a hail of submachine-gunfire on Sunday. He had escaped two previous murder attempts.Sasoli, 27, worked for the Aaj Kal, a daily paper in in the southwestern province of Balochistan, and the Independent News of Pakistan agency. His death brings to six the number of media workers killed in Pakistan since the start of the year.It is thought that a Balochi nationalist group was responsible for the murder, having previously accused Sasoli of being linked to a pro-government militia.Source: Reporters without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Pakistan murdered in hail of gunfire"},{"date": "2010-05-06T18:00:03Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The well-worn maxim that all publicity is good publicity does not immediately spring to mind in Pakistan. But given the country's frontline position in the fight against global terrorism, the involvement of yet another Pakistani in a plot to bomb a major international city will be a boon for everyone in favour of continued war in the \"AfPak\" region. For the rest of us, the alleged attempt by Pakistani-American Faisal Shahzad to bomb New York's Times Square has been a disaster.Whatever goodwill Pakistan had accrued in the bruising conflict against Islamist militancy evaporated when a young man decided to bomb New York. Like the rest of the world, Pakistanis are exasperated by the revelation that one of their own attempted such a foolhardy crime. Remember, for a moment, that Shahzad is not a poor man from the slums but the privileged son of a former senior military officer with a wife and two young children. What did he ever hope to achieve? Did he seriously consider how his actions would affect his young family and future life? Such are the deranged fantasies of the would-be Islamist revolutionary in this case and in numerous others that we may never know about.The blunt calculation is not so uncertain. People globally will not remember the thousands of Pakistanis who have lost their lives in acts of terrorism or counterterrorism \u2013 assuming they knew in the first place \u2013 or the thousands more who have died defending our country and, by extension, the rest of the world. All it takes to reduce Pakistan back to the old \"terror central\" stereotype is a poorly executed bombing attempt by a misguided young man.That message rings clear and loud for all of us who are of Pakistani origin. Shahzad fits a remarkably consistent profile of educated, middle-class young men who have decided to commit acts of terrorism in the west. Thanks to a statistically small fraction of the young male population, the vast majority of us can expect even greater scrutiny at airports and prominent public spaces around the world. American neocon Joe Lieberman has even called for terrorism suspects to be stripped of citizenship \u2013 a suggestion that will be celebrated by conservatives and Islamists alike.Such chauvinism aside, however, there is no clear formula for preventing others like Shahzad. No matter how many profiles are generated at our airports, there is simply no way to predict who will decide to commit an act of terrorism and where, except in the most general terms.It is a measure of how troubled we are in Pakistan that our worst tendencies and most misguided citizens are also our international emblems. Who would immediately associate Pakistan with judicial activism, a rich history of poetry and song, or a good curry? Perhaps many people do, but the spectre of terrorism has a way of overshadowing all that.In the wake of Shahzad's arrest, there will be a tendency in Pakistan to apportion blame to others. Some will even claim he had nothing to do with us, that he was a product of America's ills or even that the CIA was behind it all. But such excuses ring increasingly hollow for most of us now. We are frustrated with this violent distraction from the endless power shortages and cronyism that stifle daily life.In a feeble attempt to remain relevant, the increasingly isolated Pakistan Taliban movement claimed responsibility for the attempted bombing. US investigators believe Shahzad received training in the Waziristan tribal area that is the insurgency's home. But whatever training Shahzad received could not have been very good judging by his poorly constructed bomb and how easily he was identified by the authorities. As with all other foiled bombings we have civilian investigators to thank rather than the multibillion dollar arsenals that have rained death and destruction on Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan over the last decade.Paradoxically, the US and its Nato allies will, nevertheless, use this latest bomb plot as a justification for more wars that will claim more lives. As gruesome as it is to contemplate, the fact is that Shahzad's botched attack is as much a boon for military planners at the Pentagon and in Rawalpindi as it is for fatalistic Islamists who see no other option but to bomb and terrorise their way to the negotiating table.For us ordinary people there is another option. Pakistani Americans have been deeply embarrassed by the Shahzad fiasco. And as with other attempts, a Muslim was instrumental in foiling the Shahzad bombing. In Pakistan, investigators have been quick to interrogate Shahzad's family and several others possibly involved.The lesson from all of this is clear. There must be zero tolerance for the jihadi myth-makers who prey on the impressionable like Shahzad. We owe that much to our rich culture and heritage, not to mention our compatriots who have made and will continue to make the difficult journey to the west in search of a better life.", "tags": ["Times Square bomb", "Pakistan", "World news", "Islam", "US news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Faisal Shahzad"], "title": "Terrorists overshadow the real Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-06-15T19:30:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A report this week from the London School of Economics suggests that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence Agency (ISI) not only funds Taliban fighters in Afghanistan, but is officially represented on the militant movement's leadership council. Many within the Pakistani military remain convinced that supporting Islamist groups helps to expand and secure the country's regional interests. The extremist groups Pakistan once nurtured for its security, however, may ultimately prove to be the instruments of its demise.The LSE report, based on interviews with Taliban commanders, former senior Taliban ministers, and western and Afghan security officials, confirms what has long been an open secret. After the 11 September terror attacks, then president Pervez Musharraf and his military corps commanders decided to ally openly with the Bush administration in the \"war on terror\" and preserve their proxy assets as a hedge against Indian influence.That policy was vividly illustrated last February, when the ISI seized Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, one of the Afghan Taliban's top field commanders and the second in command behind the group's founder, Mullah Muhammad Omar. The ISI also captured two of the Taliban's shadow governors who operated parallel governments in two Afghan provinces. In a limited tactical sense, the abductions were a success \u2013 US leaders pointed to a clear sign of progress in the nearly decade-long campaign and commanders in the field will gain valuable human intelligence to capture more insurgents. The arrests, however, dealt neither a major blow to the Afghan Taliban network, nor represented a \"new level of co-operation\" between American and Pakistani forces in rooting out extremism. Furthermore, Pakistan refused to extradite the apprehended Taliban to Washington. And according to former UN envoy Kai Eide, at the time of his arrest, Mullah Baradar was in communication with the Afghan government, a sign that Pakistan may have sought to thwart substantive peace talks.The Baradar episode reflects the piecemeal co-operation Islamabad has provided in the post-9/11 era to the US. A substantive commitment to US goals will require Pakistan to undertake a significant shift in its strategic priorities \u2013 which will be difficult.Since the country's inception in 1947, the Pakistani military (not the Pakistani people) has apparently believed that its country's very existence depends on supporting violent, extremist groups, not strictly for ideological reasons, but as a means to expand and secure its regional interests. Aside from sponsoring Kashmiri insurrection groups since 1989, the Pakistani military infiltrated Pashtun guerrillas into Indian-held Kashmir in 1947, triggering the first Indo-Pakistan war. The Pakistani military once again attempted to annex Indian-held Kashmir in 1965, setting off the second Indo-Pakistan war. And the military infiltrated regular troops into Kargil in 1999, generating an international crisis in a now nuclear-armed subcontinent.Since 9/11, the Pakistani government has claimed that its military is too ill-equipped and poorly-trained to effectively combat its internal guerrilla insurgency. That may be true, but it's also clear that the militancy plaguing the region is a byproduct of the Pakistani military's self-defeating strategic ambitions. Getting Pakistan to modify its policies will be difficult, since many of the extremists it currently assists have been nurtured by the military for more than 30 years.Today, Pakistan's frontier region along the Afghan border stands fully Talibanised. In strategically located areas of the north, the military continually cedes the state's sovereignty to militants imposing their apocryphal interpretation of sharia law. These events must be understood as the latest in a long list of damaging strategic blunders sponsored by the Pakistani military.In recent months, highly co-ordinated suicide bombings and explosions have rocked the city of Lahore, in the heart of Punjab province. Such bold attacks, some against the homes of Pakistani air force captains and police officials, represent the extent to which militants have turned against the state. The costs of such calamitous policies are self-evident, as the insurgency Pakistan spawned has morphed into a monster that it is unable to control.In this respect, US officials and commentators have focused too heavily on how the clash of competing strategic interests between Islamabad and Washington impacts US interests in Afghanistan. But in order to convince Pakistan to end its long-standing assistance to militants, US leaders must underscore to their Pakistani counterparts that unless they radically alter their policies, their country will continue to be slammed by a heavy dose of cosmic blowback as the militants they support turn against the state.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "Afghanistan", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Why Pakistan must change its priorities | Malou Innocent"},{"date": "2010-06-13T10:48:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani intelligence is so deeply involved in the arming and funding of the Afghan Taliban that it holds a seat on the militant leadership council and has sent the president, Asif Ali Zardari, to make prison visits to captured leaders, a report by the London School of Economics has said.Researcher Matt Waldman said Pakistani support for the insurgency was \"official\" policy, implemented by the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) spy agency in the form of money, weapons and training.\"Pakistan appears to be playing a double game of astonishing magnitude,\" the report, which cited interviews with unnamed Taliban commanders and western officials, said.An ISI official in Islamabad described the report as \"rubbish\". \"It's not even worth commenting on. It's speculative at best and downright degrading at worst,\" he said.ISI links to the Afghan Taliban have been frequently reported \u2013 but rarely to the extent claimed in the document, which said the spy agency had official representation on the Quetta shura, the 15-man leadership council, based in western Pakistan.Claims of civilian collusion were equally striking. Citing a Taliban source, the report said that, in late March or early April, Zardari met 50 top-ranking Taliban members at a secret prison in Pakistan.According to the report, he told them: \"You are our people, we are friends, and after your release we will of course support you to do your operations.\" Three days later, a dozen Taliban prisoners were released.Farahnaz Ispahani, a media adviser to Zardari, said: \"Not only are these allegations totally unfounded, they are quite outrageous. President Zardari's commitment to fighting terrorism and militancy in all forms is well documented.\"The allegations may heighten tensions between Pakistan, Afghanistan and western countries at a time when the cost of the Afghan war is mounting.Since 2001, thousands of Afghans and 1,800 foreign troops, 295 of them British, have died. The conflict has cost the US government $300bn (\u00a3206bn), with spending now running at $70bn a year.The report, whose findings are based largely on unnamed sources, said Pakistan gives \"extensive support to the insurgency in terms of funding, munitions and supplies\".One Taliban commander said his fighters received $120 per month from Pakistan, while others said the ISI was covering their families' living costs in Pakistan.One interviewee said an ISI official had trained him to make suicide vests and car bombs in South Waziristan in 2005.\"The man was definitely ISI, he told us,\" he was quoted as saying. \"When some of our friends were arrested by the Pakistani authorities, he went and got them freed.\"Other interviewees appeared prone to conspiracy theories. One said the ISI support after 2001 originally came from the US government \u2013 a reflection, the report said, of the $12bn in military aid the US has given Pakistan since 2001.The report also revived allegations of links between Pakistani intelligence and Jalaluddin Haqqani, an al-Qaida linked warlord whose territory stretches into North Waziristan.The report said there was \"apparently a number of small, covert Haqqani bases in North Waziristan and Korram agencies, and Quetta, staffed by serving or former Pakistani military officials. They are often combined with a madrasa, provide a broad-based military training, and include suicide bomber cells\".The controversial document comes at a time of great sensitivity, as regional and western parties to the Afghan conflict jockey for position in anticipation of peace talks with the Taliban.Senior British officials favour negotiations, some Americans believe in fighting, and the government of the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, is increasingly fractured.Last week, the long-time head of Afghan intelligence, Amrullah Saleh, resigned from his post, saying he had become an obstacle to Karzai's plans to negotiate with the militants via Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Pakistan spy agency accused over Taliban"},{"date": "2010-06-01T16:53:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Mohenjo-daro, a ruined city in what is now Pakistan that contains the last traces of a 4,000-year-old civilisation that flourished on the banks of the river Indus, today entered the modern history books after government meteorologists recorded a temperature of 53.7C (129F). Only Al 'Aziziyah, in Libya (57.8C in 1922), Death valley in California (56.7 in 1913) and Tirat Zvi in Israel (53.9 in 1942) are thought to have been hotter.Temperatures in the nearest town, Larkana, have been only slightly lower in the last week, with 53C recorded last Wednesday. As the temperatures peaked, four people died, including a prisoner serving a life sentence for murder and an elderly woman. Dozens are said to have fainted.The extreme heat was exacerbated by chronic power cuts which have prevented people from using air-conditioning. The electricity has cut out for eight hours each day as part of a severe load-shedding regime that has caused riots in other parts of Pakistan where cities are experiencing a severe heatwave with temperatures of between 43C and 47C.\"It's very tough,\" said M B Kalhoro, a local correspondent for Dawn.com, an online newspaper. \"When the power is out, people just stay indoors all the time.\"The blistering heat now engulfing Pakistan stretches to India where more than 1,000 people have reportedly died of heatstroke or heart attacks in the last two months. Although Europe and China have experienced cooler than average winters, record or well-above average temperatures have been recorded in Tibet and Burma this year.Southern Europe was yesterday rapidly warming after a particularly cool winter. Thirteen provinces in southern Spain, including Andalucia, Murcia and the Canary islands, were put on \"yellow alert\" after meteorologists forecast temperatures rising to 38C (99F) in Cadiz, C\u00f3rdoba, Ja\u00e9n, Malaga and Seville.According to the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA), the national climate monitoring service that measures global temperatures by satellite, 2010 is shaping up to be one of the hottest years on record. The first four months were the hottest ever measured, with record spring temperatures in northern Africa, south Asia and Canada.The global temperature for March was a record 13.5C (56.3F) and average ocean temperatures were also the hottest for any March since record-keeping began in 1880.As a result of high sea surface temperatures, the Atlantic hurricane season, which officially started today is now expected to be one of the most intense in years. Last week NOAA predicted 14 to 23 named storms, including eight to 14 hurricanes, three to seven of which were likely to be \"major\" storms, with winds of at least 111mph. This is compared to an average six-month season of 11 named storms, six of which become hurricanes, two of them major.On Sunday, scientists reported that Africa's Lake Tanganyika, the second deepest freshwater lake in the world, is now at its warmest in 1,500 years, threatening the fishing industry on which several million lives depend. The lake's surface waters, at 26C (78.8F), have reached temperatures that are \"unprecedented since AD500,\" they reported in the journal Nature Geoscience.Some scientists have suggested that the warming experienced around the world this year is strongly linked to warmer than usual currents in the Pacific Ocean, a regular phenomenon known as El Ni\u00f1o. Others say that it is consistent with long-term climate change.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Pakistan", "World news", "Meteorology", "Climate change", "Science", "Climate change", "Environment", "Summer"], "title": "Temperatures reach record high in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-05-22T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Since \"Everybody Draw Mohammed Day!\" was announced on 20 May, those associated with its creation have been rushing around to distance themselves from the ensuing controversy. Cartoonist Molly Norris has announced, \"I am NOT involved!\" Apparently, Facebook user Jon Wellington used her cartoon to create the group. But even he has stepped back, \"Ya'll go ahead if that's your bag, but count me out.\" It's not so easy to step away from these developments, however.With a widening crackdown threatening Pakistan's 20 million internet users \u2013 Facebook was blocked first, on Thursday YouTube and Wikipedia were added to the list, and now Twitter \u2013 the Facebook ban is about more than a simple social networking site. While everyone, including the US state department, seems to want to clean their hands of this situation, neither Facebook nor Muslims can afford to step back. The question is, how to step up?Illustrations of the Prophet Muhammad are blasphemous in Islam. It is clear \u2013 and has been for some time \u2013 that the transnational Muslim community does not respond well to depictions of their beloved prophet, and neither is this breaking news. The violence and fury that resulted from the publication of 12 editorial cartoons by a Danish newspaper in 2005 are well-known. To whimsically revive the issue on the world's largest social networking site is an irresponsible poke-in-the-eye. Against this backdrop, then, the juvenile attempt to mock a holy figure in one of the world's largest religions deserves serious attention.While sensitivity to drawings may seem irrational to non-Muslims, many religions and cultures have sore spots that the world has learned to respect. Freedom of speech is a right, but this right is not befitting of irrationality. It should be treated like any other right afforded by civil liberties: with responsibility. And when it is abused, an apology or some form of resolution is in order.According to its own terms, conditions, and precedents, Facebook should have removed the group. Facebook's policy makes it clear that obscene content and the triggering of hate material toward any group, individual, or religion will be banned and removed. Last year, Facebook was quick to honour requests by Italian authorities to shut down a page dedicated to Massimo Tartaglia, the man who allegedly punched Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi at a political rally in Milan. No such urgency found its way to the controversy behind the \"Everybody Draw Mohammed Day\" page: only yesterday did Facebook shut it down.Unfortunately, because Facebook did not initially ban the page \u2013 despite requests \u2013 Pakistan banned Facebook. But Pakistan has millions of internet users and the banned sites constitute 25% of internet traffic. Many Pakistanis are asking why the sites were banned in their entirety, when the government might have launched a more effective and moderate response, including banning individual pages where possible.It may have never occurred to the government that the most effective response would have been to actually allow Pakistanis, in consonance with Muslims worldwide, on Facebook to express their own outrage. Muslims had already created Facebook groups in protest and such a viral campaign would have been a much more powerful, compelling, and dignified response than the reactionary shutdown. And it may have sparked more: negative images of the prophet could have been countered by using Facebook and YouTube to communicate his positive significance to Muslims in new and creative ways.Ironically, the current debacle provides Pakistanis with the best opportunity to demonstrate that Muslims can communicate their way out of a crisis. As Monis Rahman, head of one of Pakistan's largest internet companies states, \"There are too many assumptions being made about Pakistan's vibrant, educated internet community.\" But if westerners fail to note that this community exists in Pakistan, it's because their voices have been drowned out by Pakistan's reactionary authorities. Now is the time for Pakistan's internet community to engage in an organised and compelling dialogue: if not with the offenders, then most certainly with the rest of the world that is watching. Pakistanis need to take back the internet, and do for social liberties in Pakistan what the Lawyer's Movement once did for civil rights. At the same time, they will demonstrate to Muslims that there is a third way: organised communication is a more effective response to conflict than violence or silence.News of the ban on Twitter came as the keys on this unrestricted mac typed away. The question is: where does this end? Pakistan is not Iran \u2013 where rock music, western movies, and associating with the opposite sex can earn fines and lashes. But with Pakistan's internet authorities hunting out \"sacrilegious content\", it's not just about caricatures anymore. From the protests against drones, to frequent rallies by the religious right, Pakistanis have demonstrated their strength on the streets. Now is the time to demonstrate their power on the internet.  \u2022 This article was co-authoured by Nadia Naviwala, a student at the Kennedy School of Government, and fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.", "tags": ["Facebook", "Twitter", "YouTube", "Social networking", "Pakistan", "Censorship", "Internet", "Freedom of speech", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan's Facebook ban is not the answer | Bilal Baloch and Nadia Naviwala"},{"date": "2010-06-29T06:52:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani reporter Faiz Muhammad Sasoli was killed in a hail of submachine-gunfire on Sunday. He had escaped two previous murder attempts.Sasoli, 27, worked for the Aaj Kal, a daily paper in in the southwestern province of Balochistan, and the Independent News of Pakistan agency. His death brings to six the number of media workers killed in Pakistan since the start of the year.It is thought that a Balochi nationalist group was responsible for the murder, having previously accused Sasoli of being linked to a pro-government militia.Source: Reporters without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Pakistan murdered in hail of gunfire"},{"date": "2010-05-06T18:00:03Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The well-worn maxim that all publicity is good publicity does not immediately spring to mind in Pakistan. But given the country's frontline position in the fight against global terrorism, the involvement of yet another Pakistani in a plot to bomb a major international city will be a boon for everyone in favour of continued war in the \"AfPak\" region. For the rest of us, the alleged attempt by Pakistani-American Faisal Shahzad to bomb New York's Times Square has been a disaster.Whatever goodwill Pakistan had accrued in the bruising conflict against Islamist militancy evaporated when a young man decided to bomb New York. Like the rest of the world, Pakistanis are exasperated by the revelation that one of their own attempted such a foolhardy crime. Remember, for a moment, that Shahzad is not a poor man from the slums but the privileged son of a former senior military officer with a wife and two young children. What did he ever hope to achieve? Did he seriously consider how his actions would affect his young family and future life? Such are the deranged fantasies of the would-be Islamist revolutionary in this case and in numerous others that we may never know about.The blunt calculation is not so uncertain. People globally will not remember the thousands of Pakistanis who have lost their lives in acts of terrorism or counterterrorism \u2013 assuming they knew in the first place \u2013 or the thousands more who have died defending our country and, by extension, the rest of the world. All it takes to reduce Pakistan back to the old \"terror central\" stereotype is a poorly executed bombing attempt by a misguided young man.That message rings clear and loud for all of us who are of Pakistani origin. Shahzad fits a remarkably consistent profile of educated, middle-class young men who have decided to commit acts of terrorism in the west. Thanks to a statistically small fraction of the young male population, the vast majority of us can expect even greater scrutiny at airports and prominent public spaces around the world. American neocon Joe Lieberman has even called for terrorism suspects to be stripped of citizenship \u2013 a suggestion that will be celebrated by conservatives and Islamists alike.Such chauvinism aside, however, there is no clear formula for preventing others like Shahzad. No matter how many profiles are generated at our airports, there is simply no way to predict who will decide to commit an act of terrorism and where, except in the most general terms.It is a measure of how troubled we are in Pakistan that our worst tendencies and most misguided citizens are also our international emblems. Who would immediately associate Pakistan with judicial activism, a rich history of poetry and song, or a good curry? Perhaps many people do, but the spectre of terrorism has a way of overshadowing all that.In the wake of Shahzad's arrest, there will be a tendency in Pakistan to apportion blame to others. Some will even claim he had nothing to do with us, that he was a product of America's ills or even that the CIA was behind it all. But such excuses ring increasingly hollow for most of us now. We are frustrated with this violent distraction from the endless power shortages and cronyism that stifle daily life.In a feeble attempt to remain relevant, the increasingly isolated Pakistan Taliban movement claimed responsibility for the attempted bombing. US investigators believe Shahzad received training in the Waziristan tribal area that is the insurgency's home. But whatever training Shahzad received could not have been very good judging by his poorly constructed bomb and how easily he was identified by the authorities. As with all other foiled bombings we have civilian investigators to thank rather than the multibillion dollar arsenals that have rained death and destruction on Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan over the last decade.Paradoxically, the US and its Nato allies will, nevertheless, use this latest bomb plot as a justification for more wars that will claim more lives. As gruesome as it is to contemplate, the fact is that Shahzad's botched attack is as much a boon for military planners at the Pentagon and in Rawalpindi as it is for fatalistic Islamists who see no other option but to bomb and terrorise their way to the negotiating table.For us ordinary people there is another option. Pakistani Americans have been deeply embarrassed by the Shahzad fiasco. And as with other attempts, a Muslim was instrumental in foiling the Shahzad bombing. In Pakistan, investigators have been quick to interrogate Shahzad's family and several others possibly involved.The lesson from all of this is clear. There must be zero tolerance for the jihadi myth-makers who prey on the impressionable like Shahzad. We owe that much to our rich culture and heritage, not to mention our compatriots who have made and will continue to make the difficult journey to the west in search of a better life.", "tags": ["Times Square bomb", "Pakistan", "World news", "Islam", "US news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Faisal Shahzad"], "title": "Terrorists overshadow the real Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-06-15T19:30:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A report this week from the London School of Economics suggests that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence Agency (ISI) not only funds Taliban fighters in Afghanistan, but is officially represented on the militant movement's leadership council. Many within the Pakistani military remain convinced that supporting Islamist groups helps to expand and secure the country's regional interests. The extremist groups Pakistan once nurtured for its security, however, may ultimately prove to be the instruments of its demise.The LSE report, based on interviews with Taliban commanders, former senior Taliban ministers, and western and Afghan security officials, confirms what has long been an open secret. After the 11 September terror attacks, then president Pervez Musharraf and his military corps commanders decided to ally openly with the Bush administration in the \"war on terror\" and preserve their proxy assets as a hedge against Indian influence.That policy was vividly illustrated last February, when the ISI seized Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, one of the Afghan Taliban's top field commanders and the second in command behind the group's founder, Mullah Muhammad Omar. The ISI also captured two of the Taliban's shadow governors who operated parallel governments in two Afghan provinces. In a limited tactical sense, the abductions were a success \u2013 US leaders pointed to a clear sign of progress in the nearly decade-long campaign and commanders in the field will gain valuable human intelligence to capture more insurgents. The arrests, however, dealt neither a major blow to the Afghan Taliban network, nor represented a \"new level of co-operation\" between American and Pakistani forces in rooting out extremism. Furthermore, Pakistan refused to extradite the apprehended Taliban to Washington. And according to former UN envoy Kai Eide, at the time of his arrest, Mullah Baradar was in communication with the Afghan government, a sign that Pakistan may have sought to thwart substantive peace talks.The Baradar episode reflects the piecemeal co-operation Islamabad has provided in the post-9/11 era to the US. A substantive commitment to US goals will require Pakistan to undertake a significant shift in its strategic priorities \u2013 which will be difficult.Since the country's inception in 1947, the Pakistani military (not the Pakistani people) has apparently believed that its country's very existence depends on supporting violent, extremist groups, not strictly for ideological reasons, but as a means to expand and secure its regional interests. Aside from sponsoring Kashmiri insurrection groups since 1989, the Pakistani military infiltrated Pashtun guerrillas into Indian-held Kashmir in 1947, triggering the first Indo-Pakistan war. The Pakistani military once again attempted to annex Indian-held Kashmir in 1965, setting off the second Indo-Pakistan war. And the military infiltrated regular troops into Kargil in 1999, generating an international crisis in a now nuclear-armed subcontinent.Since 9/11, the Pakistani government has claimed that its military is too ill-equipped and poorly-trained to effectively combat its internal guerrilla insurgency. That may be true, but it's also clear that the militancy plaguing the region is a byproduct of the Pakistani military's self-defeating strategic ambitions. Getting Pakistan to modify its policies will be difficult, since many of the extremists it currently assists have been nurtured by the military for more than 30 years.Today, Pakistan's frontier region along the Afghan border stands fully Talibanised. In strategically located areas of the north, the military continually cedes the state's sovereignty to militants imposing their apocryphal interpretation of sharia law. These events must be understood as the latest in a long list of damaging strategic blunders sponsored by the Pakistani military.In recent months, highly co-ordinated suicide bombings and explosions have rocked the city of Lahore, in the heart of Punjab province. Such bold attacks, some against the homes of Pakistani air force captains and police officials, represent the extent to which militants have turned against the state. The costs of such calamitous policies are self-evident, as the insurgency Pakistan spawned has morphed into a monster that it is unable to control.In this respect, US officials and commentators have focused too heavily on how the clash of competing strategic interests between Islamabad and Washington impacts US interests in Afghanistan. But in order to convince Pakistan to end its long-standing assistance to militants, US leaders must underscore to their Pakistani counterparts that unless they radically alter their policies, their country will continue to be slammed by a heavy dose of cosmic blowback as the militants they support turn against the state.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "Afghanistan", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Why Pakistan must change its priorities | Malou Innocent"},{"date": "2010-06-13T10:48:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani intelligence is so deeply involved in the arming and funding of the Afghan Taliban that it holds a seat on the militant leadership council and has sent the president, Asif Ali Zardari, to make prison visits to captured leaders, a report by the London School of Economics has said.Researcher Matt Waldman said Pakistani support for the insurgency was \"official\" policy, implemented by the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) spy agency in the form of money, weapons and training.\"Pakistan appears to be playing a double game of astonishing magnitude,\" the report, which cited interviews with unnamed Taliban commanders and western officials, said.An ISI official in Islamabad described the report as \"rubbish\". \"It's not even worth commenting on. It's speculative at best and downright degrading at worst,\" he said.ISI links to the Afghan Taliban have been frequently reported \u2013 but rarely to the extent claimed in the document, which said the spy agency had official representation on the Quetta shura, the 15-man leadership council, based in western Pakistan.Claims of civilian collusion were equally striking. Citing a Taliban source, the report said that, in late March or early April, Zardari met 50 top-ranking Taliban members at a secret prison in Pakistan.According to the report, he told them: \"You are our people, we are friends, and after your release we will of course support you to do your operations.\" Three days later, a dozen Taliban prisoners were released.Farahnaz Ispahani, a media adviser to Zardari, said: \"Not only are these allegations totally unfounded, they are quite outrageous. President Zardari's commitment to fighting terrorism and militancy in all forms is well documented.\"The allegations may heighten tensions between Pakistan, Afghanistan and western countries at a time when the cost of the Afghan war is mounting.Since 2001, thousands of Afghans and 1,800 foreign troops, 295 of them British, have died. The conflict has cost the US government $300bn (\u00a3206bn), with spending now running at $70bn a year.The report, whose findings are based largely on unnamed sources, said Pakistan gives \"extensive support to the insurgency in terms of funding, munitions and supplies\".One Taliban commander said his fighters received $120 per month from Pakistan, while others said the ISI was covering their families' living costs in Pakistan.One interviewee said an ISI official had trained him to make suicide vests and car bombs in South Waziristan in 2005.\"The man was definitely ISI, he told us,\" he was quoted as saying. \"When some of our friends were arrested by the Pakistani authorities, he went and got them freed.\"Other interviewees appeared prone to conspiracy theories. One said the ISI support after 2001 originally came from the US government \u2013 a reflection, the report said, of the $12bn in military aid the US has given Pakistan since 2001.The report also revived allegations of links between Pakistani intelligence and Jalaluddin Haqqani, an al-Qaida linked warlord whose territory stretches into North Waziristan.The report said there was \"apparently a number of small, covert Haqqani bases in North Waziristan and Korram agencies, and Quetta, staffed by serving or former Pakistani military officials. They are often combined with a madrasa, provide a broad-based military training, and include suicide bomber cells\".The controversial document comes at a time of great sensitivity, as regional and western parties to the Afghan conflict jockey for position in anticipation of peace talks with the Taliban.Senior British officials favour negotiations, some Americans believe in fighting, and the government of the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, is increasingly fractured.Last week, the long-time head of Afghan intelligence, Amrullah Saleh, resigned from his post, saying he had become an obstacle to Karzai's plans to negotiate with the militants via Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Pakistan spy agency accused over Taliban"},{"date": "2010-06-01T16:53:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Mohenjo-daro, a ruined city in what is now Pakistan that contains the last traces of a 4,000-year-old civilisation that flourished on the banks of the river Indus, today entered the modern history books after government meteorologists recorded a temperature of 53.7C (129F). Only Al 'Aziziyah, in Libya (57.8C in 1922), Death valley in California (56.7 in 1913) and Tirat Zvi in Israel (53.9 in 1942) are thought to have been hotter.Temperatures in the nearest town, Larkana, have been only slightly lower in the last week, with 53C recorded last Wednesday. As the temperatures peaked, four people died, including a prisoner serving a life sentence for murder and an elderly woman. Dozens are said to have fainted.The extreme heat was exacerbated by chronic power cuts which have prevented people from using air-conditioning. The electricity has cut out for eight hours each day as part of a severe load-shedding regime that has caused riots in other parts of Pakistan where cities are experiencing a severe heatwave with temperatures of between 43C and 47C.\"It's very tough,\" said M B Kalhoro, a local correspondent for Dawn.com, an online newspaper. \"When the power is out, people just stay indoors all the time.\"The blistering heat now engulfing Pakistan stretches to India where more than 1,000 people have reportedly died of heatstroke or heart attacks in the last two months. Although Europe and China have experienced cooler than average winters, record or well-above average temperatures have been recorded in Tibet and Burma this year.Southern Europe was yesterday rapidly warming after a particularly cool winter. Thirteen provinces in southern Spain, including Andalucia, Murcia and the Canary islands, were put on \"yellow alert\" after meteorologists forecast temperatures rising to 38C (99F) in Cadiz, C\u00f3rdoba, Ja\u00e9n, Malaga and Seville.According to the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA), the national climate monitoring service that measures global temperatures by satellite, 2010 is shaping up to be one of the hottest years on record. The first four months were the hottest ever measured, with record spring temperatures in northern Africa, south Asia and Canada.The global temperature for March was a record 13.5C (56.3F) and average ocean temperatures were also the hottest for any March since record-keeping began in 1880.As a result of high sea surface temperatures, the Atlantic hurricane season, which officially started today is now expected to be one of the most intense in years. Last week NOAA predicted 14 to 23 named storms, including eight to 14 hurricanes, three to seven of which were likely to be \"major\" storms, with winds of at least 111mph. This is compared to an average six-month season of 11 named storms, six of which become hurricanes, two of them major.On Sunday, scientists reported that Africa's Lake Tanganyika, the second deepest freshwater lake in the world, is now at its warmest in 1,500 years, threatening the fishing industry on which several million lives depend. The lake's surface waters, at 26C (78.8F), have reached temperatures that are \"unprecedented since AD500,\" they reported in the journal Nature Geoscience.Some scientists have suggested that the warming experienced around the world this year is strongly linked to warmer than usual currents in the Pacific Ocean, a regular phenomenon known as El Ni\u00f1o. Others say that it is consistent with long-term climate change.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Pakistan", "World news", "Meteorology", "Climate change", "Science", "Climate change", "Environment", "Summer"], "title": "Temperatures reach record high in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-05-22T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Since \"Everybody Draw Mohammed Day!\" was announced on 20 May, those associated with its creation have been rushing around to distance themselves from the ensuing controversy. Cartoonist Molly Norris has announced, \"I am NOT involved!\" Apparently, Facebook user Jon Wellington used her cartoon to create the group. But even he has stepped back, \"Ya'll go ahead if that's your bag, but count me out.\" It's not so easy to step away from these developments, however.With a widening crackdown threatening Pakistan's 20 million internet users \u2013 Facebook was blocked first, on Thursday YouTube and Wikipedia were added to the list, and now Twitter \u2013 the Facebook ban is about more than a simple social networking site. While everyone, including the US state department, seems to want to clean their hands of this situation, neither Facebook nor Muslims can afford to step back. The question is, how to step up?Illustrations of the Prophet Muhammad are blasphemous in Islam. It is clear \u2013 and has been for some time \u2013 that the transnational Muslim community does not respond well to depictions of their beloved prophet, and neither is this breaking news. The violence and fury that resulted from the publication of 12 editorial cartoons by a Danish newspaper in 2005 are well-known. To whimsically revive the issue on the world's largest social networking site is an irresponsible poke-in-the-eye. Against this backdrop, then, the juvenile attempt to mock a holy figure in one of the world's largest religions deserves serious attention.While sensitivity to drawings may seem irrational to non-Muslims, many religions and cultures have sore spots that the world has learned to respect. Freedom of speech is a right, but this right is not befitting of irrationality. It should be treated like any other right afforded by civil liberties: with responsibility. And when it is abused, an apology or some form of resolution is in order.According to its own terms, conditions, and precedents, Facebook should have removed the group. Facebook's policy makes it clear that obscene content and the triggering of hate material toward any group, individual, or religion will be banned and removed. Last year, Facebook was quick to honour requests by Italian authorities to shut down a page dedicated to Massimo Tartaglia, the man who allegedly punched Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi at a political rally in Milan. No such urgency found its way to the controversy behind the \"Everybody Draw Mohammed Day\" page: only yesterday did Facebook shut it down.Unfortunately, because Facebook did not initially ban the page \u2013 despite requests \u2013 Pakistan banned Facebook. But Pakistan has millions of internet users and the banned sites constitute 25% of internet traffic. Many Pakistanis are asking why the sites were banned in their entirety, when the government might have launched a more effective and moderate response, including banning individual pages where possible.It may have never occurred to the government that the most effective response would have been to actually allow Pakistanis, in consonance with Muslims worldwide, on Facebook to express their own outrage. Muslims had already created Facebook groups in protest and such a viral campaign would have been a much more powerful, compelling, and dignified response than the reactionary shutdown. And it may have sparked more: negative images of the prophet could have been countered by using Facebook and YouTube to communicate his positive significance to Muslims in new and creative ways.Ironically, the current debacle provides Pakistanis with the best opportunity to demonstrate that Muslims can communicate their way out of a crisis. As Monis Rahman, head of one of Pakistan's largest internet companies states, \"There are too many assumptions being made about Pakistan's vibrant, educated internet community.\" But if westerners fail to note that this community exists in Pakistan, it's because their voices have been drowned out by Pakistan's reactionary authorities. Now is the time for Pakistan's internet community to engage in an organised and compelling dialogue: if not with the offenders, then most certainly with the rest of the world that is watching. Pakistanis need to take back the internet, and do for social liberties in Pakistan what the Lawyer's Movement once did for civil rights. At the same time, they will demonstrate to Muslims that there is a third way: organised communication is a more effective response to conflict than violence or silence.News of the ban on Twitter came as the keys on this unrestricted mac typed away. The question is: where does this end? Pakistan is not Iran \u2013 where rock music, western movies, and associating with the opposite sex can earn fines and lashes. But with Pakistan's internet authorities hunting out \"sacrilegious content\", it's not just about caricatures anymore. From the protests against drones, to frequent rallies by the religious right, Pakistanis have demonstrated their strength on the streets. Now is the time to demonstrate their power on the internet.  \u2022 This article was co-authoured by Nadia Naviwala, a student at the Kennedy School of Government, and fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.", "tags": ["Facebook", "Twitter", "YouTube", "Social networking", "Pakistan", "Censorship", "Internet", "Freedom of speech", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan's Facebook ban is not the answer | Bilal Baloch and Nadia Naviwala"},{"date": "2010-05-20T12:42:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Some of the internet's most popular websites were blocked in Pakistan today as officials sought to restrict access to provocative images depicting the prophet Muhammad that many Muslims consider blasphemous, amid fears of possible street violence.The government blocked the video-sharing website YouTube, one day after it banned Facebook, while users reported restrictions on Flickr and Wikipedia, prompting complaints from internet users but approval from angered protesters.The censorship revolves around a Facebook competition that has attracted hundreds of images depicting the prophet Muhammad, including depictions of a bearded figure as a pig and wearing a bikini. The Pakistan Telecommunications Authority, which controls internet access, said it had blocked YouTube because some users were using the video site to repost the offending Facebook images.BlackBerry service was also blocked for about 10 hours as government censors and mobile providers scrambled to find a way of blocking the offending pages without cutting off the entire internet.The crackdown started on Tuesday after an Islamic lawyers' association won a court injunction, first against the offending web page and later against the entire Facebook site. It will be reviewed on 31 May.Najibullah Malik, the civil servant heading the committee that implemented the ban, said it might be reviewed at a meeting next week. \"We decided that this kind of information was going to hurt people's feelings. We have directed the PTA to block all and any sites that display those caricatures,\" he told the Guardian.At one level, the controversy pits free speech fundamentalists in the west against religious extremists in Pakistan. Pakistani protesters accuse the government of crude censorship that is ineffectual because users can circumvent the restrictions through proxy servers.Emails with instructions on how to find proxy servers swirled around Pakistani cyberspace from early morning. Many vented their anger on Twitter, which experienced a surge in demand from Pakistanis starved of social networking opportunities. \"Way to go assholes. Why don't you just cut us off from the internet and get it over and done with,\" read one tweet.Pakistan has about 20 million internet users, 2.5 million of whom are members of Facebook.Government officials say they are acting pre-emptively to prevent a repeat of the 2006 cartoon riots that caused destruction of property and caused five deaths. But it was unclear whether the measures would satisfy the court or prevent disturbances.Even after Facebook was banned yesterday, Islamist groups took to the streets, mounting minor protests. More are feared following weekly prayers tomorrow.Inspired by an idea from a Seattle cartoonist, at least two Facebook pages are titled \"Everybody Draw Mohammad Day\", with combined membership of over 80,000 people and hundreds of controversial images. A website devoted to the idea has also been censored.Although the pages claim to be upholding the right to free speech, many users are using them to spread images that crudely lampoon Islam or cause gratuitous offence to its followers.The controversy poses a dilemma for Pakistan's minority liberals, many of whom oppose government censorship yet are also critical of western countries that allow the dissemination of hateful and potentially destabilising material.Hasan Zaidi, a journalist and film-maker, said he and other internet users planned to file a court petition against the ban. \"It's absurd,\" he said. \"They haven't thought this through. The logical conclusion is that we should shut our eyes, stick our fingers in our ears and ban the entire internet, even email.\"But Zaidi added that western countries with blasphemy laws protecting Christianity or preventing Holocaust denial were guilty of hypocrisy, and said he felt western rightwing extremists were using the controversy to heighten bigoted views.\"This sort of campaign to promote the right of free speech is very narrow minded and shallow,\" he said. \"I'm not discounting that those images are offensive to the vast majority of people. My issue is with the [government's] solution.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "YouTube", "Technology", "Censorship", "Facebook", "Internet", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan blocks YouTube access over Muhammad depictions"},{"date": "2010-06-29T06:52:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani reporter Faiz Muhammad Sasoli was killed in a hail of submachine-gunfire on Sunday. He had escaped two previous murder attempts.Sasoli, 27, worked for the Aaj Kal, a daily paper in in the southwestern province of Balochistan, and the Independent News of Pakistan agency. His death brings to six the number of media workers killed in Pakistan since the start of the year.It is thought that a Balochi nationalist group was responsible for the murder, having previously accused Sasoli of being linked to a pro-government militia.Source: Reporters without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Pakistan murdered in hail of gunfire"},{"date": "2010-05-06T18:00:03Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The well-worn maxim that all publicity is good publicity does not immediately spring to mind in Pakistan. But given the country's frontline position in the fight against global terrorism, the involvement of yet another Pakistani in a plot to bomb a major international city will be a boon for everyone in favour of continued war in the \"AfPak\" region. For the rest of us, the alleged attempt by Pakistani-American Faisal Shahzad to bomb New York's Times Square has been a disaster.Whatever goodwill Pakistan had accrued in the bruising conflict against Islamist militancy evaporated when a young man decided to bomb New York. Like the rest of the world, Pakistanis are exasperated by the revelation that one of their own attempted such a foolhardy crime. Remember, for a moment, that Shahzad is not a poor man from the slums but the privileged son of a former senior military officer with a wife and two young children. What did he ever hope to achieve? Did he seriously consider how his actions would affect his young family and future life? Such are the deranged fantasies of the would-be Islamist revolutionary in this case and in numerous others that we may never know about.The blunt calculation is not so uncertain. People globally will not remember the thousands of Pakistanis who have lost their lives in acts of terrorism or counterterrorism \u2013 assuming they knew in the first place \u2013 or the thousands more who have died defending our country and, by extension, the rest of the world. All it takes to reduce Pakistan back to the old \"terror central\" stereotype is a poorly executed bombing attempt by a misguided young man.That message rings clear and loud for all of us who are of Pakistani origin. Shahzad fits a remarkably consistent profile of educated, middle-class young men who have decided to commit acts of terrorism in the west. Thanks to a statistically small fraction of the young male population, the vast majority of us can expect even greater scrutiny at airports and prominent public spaces around the world. American neocon Joe Lieberman has even called for terrorism suspects to be stripped of citizenship \u2013 a suggestion that will be celebrated by conservatives and Islamists alike.Such chauvinism aside, however, there is no clear formula for preventing others like Shahzad. No matter how many profiles are generated at our airports, there is simply no way to predict who will decide to commit an act of terrorism and where, except in the most general terms.It is a measure of how troubled we are in Pakistan that our worst tendencies and most misguided citizens are also our international emblems. Who would immediately associate Pakistan with judicial activism, a rich history of poetry and song, or a good curry? Perhaps many people do, but the spectre of terrorism has a way of overshadowing all that.In the wake of Shahzad's arrest, there will be a tendency in Pakistan to apportion blame to others. Some will even claim he had nothing to do with us, that he was a product of America's ills or even that the CIA was behind it all. But such excuses ring increasingly hollow for most of us now. We are frustrated with this violent distraction from the endless power shortages and cronyism that stifle daily life.In a feeble attempt to remain relevant, the increasingly isolated Pakistan Taliban movement claimed responsibility for the attempted bombing. US investigators believe Shahzad received training in the Waziristan tribal area that is the insurgency's home. But whatever training Shahzad received could not have been very good judging by his poorly constructed bomb and how easily he was identified by the authorities. As with all other foiled bombings we have civilian investigators to thank rather than the multibillion dollar arsenals that have rained death and destruction on Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan over the last decade.Paradoxically, the US and its Nato allies will, nevertheless, use this latest bomb plot as a justification for more wars that will claim more lives. As gruesome as it is to contemplate, the fact is that Shahzad's botched attack is as much a boon for military planners at the Pentagon and in Rawalpindi as it is for fatalistic Islamists who see no other option but to bomb and terrorise their way to the negotiating table.For us ordinary people there is another option. Pakistani Americans have been deeply embarrassed by the Shahzad fiasco. And as with other attempts, a Muslim was instrumental in foiling the Shahzad bombing. In Pakistan, investigators have been quick to interrogate Shahzad's family and several others possibly involved.The lesson from all of this is clear. There must be zero tolerance for the jihadi myth-makers who prey on the impressionable like Shahzad. We owe that much to our rich culture and heritage, not to mention our compatriots who have made and will continue to make the difficult journey to the west in search of a better life.", "tags": ["Times Square bomb", "Pakistan", "World news", "Islam", "US news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Faisal Shahzad"], "title": "Terrorists overshadow the real Pakistan | Mustafa Qadri"},{"date": "2010-06-15T19:30:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A report this week from the London School of Economics suggests that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence Agency (ISI) not only funds Taliban fighters in Afghanistan, but is officially represented on the militant movement's leadership council. Many within the Pakistani military remain convinced that supporting Islamist groups helps to expand and secure the country's regional interests. The extremist groups Pakistan once nurtured for its security, however, may ultimately prove to be the instruments of its demise.The LSE report, based on interviews with Taliban commanders, former senior Taliban ministers, and western and Afghan security officials, confirms what has long been an open secret. After the 11 September terror attacks, then president Pervez Musharraf and his military corps commanders decided to ally openly with the Bush administration in the \"war on terror\" and preserve their proxy assets as a hedge against Indian influence.That policy was vividly illustrated last February, when the ISI seized Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, one of the Afghan Taliban's top field commanders and the second in command behind the group's founder, Mullah Muhammad Omar. The ISI also captured two of the Taliban's shadow governors who operated parallel governments in two Afghan provinces. In a limited tactical sense, the abductions were a success \u2013 US leaders pointed to a clear sign of progress in the nearly decade-long campaign and commanders in the field will gain valuable human intelligence to capture more insurgents. The arrests, however, dealt neither a major blow to the Afghan Taliban network, nor represented a \"new level of co-operation\" between American and Pakistani forces in rooting out extremism. Furthermore, Pakistan refused to extradite the apprehended Taliban to Washington. And according to former UN envoy Kai Eide, at the time of his arrest, Mullah Baradar was in communication with the Afghan government, a sign that Pakistan may have sought to thwart substantive peace talks.The Baradar episode reflects the piecemeal co-operation Islamabad has provided in the post-9/11 era to the US. A substantive commitment to US goals will require Pakistan to undertake a significant shift in its strategic priorities \u2013 which will be difficult.Since the country's inception in 1947, the Pakistani military (not the Pakistani people) has apparently believed that its country's very existence depends on supporting violent, extremist groups, not strictly for ideological reasons, but as a means to expand and secure its regional interests. Aside from sponsoring Kashmiri insurrection groups since 1989, the Pakistani military infiltrated Pashtun guerrillas into Indian-held Kashmir in 1947, triggering the first Indo-Pakistan war. The Pakistani military once again attempted to annex Indian-held Kashmir in 1965, setting off the second Indo-Pakistan war. And the military infiltrated regular troops into Kargil in 1999, generating an international crisis in a now nuclear-armed subcontinent.Since 9/11, the Pakistani government has claimed that its military is too ill-equipped and poorly-trained to effectively combat its internal guerrilla insurgency. That may be true, but it's also clear that the militancy plaguing the region is a byproduct of the Pakistani military's self-defeating strategic ambitions. Getting Pakistan to modify its policies will be difficult, since many of the extremists it currently assists have been nurtured by the military for more than 30 years.Today, Pakistan's frontier region along the Afghan border stands fully Talibanised. In strategically located areas of the north, the military continually cedes the state's sovereignty to militants imposing their apocryphal interpretation of sharia law. These events must be understood as the latest in a long list of damaging strategic blunders sponsored by the Pakistani military.In recent months, highly co-ordinated suicide bombings and explosions have rocked the city of Lahore, in the heart of Punjab province. Such bold attacks, some against the homes of Pakistani air force captains and police officials, represent the extent to which militants have turned against the state. The costs of such calamitous policies are self-evident, as the insurgency Pakistan spawned has morphed into a monster that it is unable to control.In this respect, US officials and commentators have focused too heavily on how the clash of competing strategic interests between Islamabad and Washington impacts US interests in Afghanistan. But in order to convince Pakistan to end its long-standing assistance to militants, US leaders must underscore to their Pakistani counterparts that unless they radically alter their policies, their country will continue to be slammed by a heavy dose of cosmic blowback as the militants they support turn against the state.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "US foreign policy", "Afghanistan", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Why Pakistan must change its priorities | Malou Innocent"},{"date": "2010-06-13T10:48:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani intelligence is so deeply involved in the arming and funding of the Afghan Taliban that it holds a seat on the militant leadership council and has sent the president, Asif Ali Zardari, to make prison visits to captured leaders, a report by the London School of Economics has said.Researcher Matt Waldman said Pakistani support for the insurgency was \"official\" policy, implemented by the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) spy agency in the form of money, weapons and training.\"Pakistan appears to be playing a double game of astonishing magnitude,\" the report, which cited interviews with unnamed Taliban commanders and western officials, said.An ISI official in Islamabad described the report as \"rubbish\". \"It's not even worth commenting on. It's speculative at best and downright degrading at worst,\" he said.ISI links to the Afghan Taliban have been frequently reported \u2013 but rarely to the extent claimed in the document, which said the spy agency had official representation on the Quetta shura, the 15-man leadership council, based in western Pakistan.Claims of civilian collusion were equally striking. Citing a Taliban source, the report said that, in late March or early April, Zardari met 50 top-ranking Taliban members at a secret prison in Pakistan.According to the report, he told them: \"You are our people, we are friends, and after your release we will of course support you to do your operations.\" Three days later, a dozen Taliban prisoners were released.Farahnaz Ispahani, a media adviser to Zardari, said: \"Not only are these allegations totally unfounded, they are quite outrageous. President Zardari's commitment to fighting terrorism and militancy in all forms is well documented.\"The allegations may heighten tensions between Pakistan, Afghanistan and western countries at a time when the cost of the Afghan war is mounting.Since 2001, thousands of Afghans and 1,800 foreign troops, 295 of them British, have died. The conflict has cost the US government $300bn (\u00a3206bn), with spending now running at $70bn a year.The report, whose findings are based largely on unnamed sources, said Pakistan gives \"extensive support to the insurgency in terms of funding, munitions and supplies\".One Taliban commander said his fighters received $120 per month from Pakistan, while others said the ISI was covering their families' living costs in Pakistan.One interviewee said an ISI official had trained him to make suicide vests and car bombs in South Waziristan in 2005.\"The man was definitely ISI, he told us,\" he was quoted as saying. \"When some of our friends were arrested by the Pakistani authorities, he went and got them freed.\"Other interviewees appeared prone to conspiracy theories. One said the ISI support after 2001 originally came from the US government \u2013 a reflection, the report said, of the $12bn in military aid the US has given Pakistan since 2001.The report also revived allegations of links between Pakistani intelligence and Jalaluddin Haqqani, an al-Qaida linked warlord whose territory stretches into North Waziristan.The report said there was \"apparently a number of small, covert Haqqani bases in North Waziristan and Korram agencies, and Quetta, staffed by serving or former Pakistani military officials. They are often combined with a madrasa, provide a broad-based military training, and include suicide bomber cells\".The controversial document comes at a time of great sensitivity, as regional and western parties to the Afghan conflict jockey for position in anticipation of peace talks with the Taliban.Senior British officials favour negotiations, some Americans believe in fighting, and the government of the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, is increasingly fractured.Last week, the long-time head of Afghan intelligence, Amrullah Saleh, resigned from his post, saying he had become an obstacle to Karzai's plans to negotiate with the militants via Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Pakistan spy agency accused over Taliban"},{"date": "2010-06-01T16:53:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Mohenjo-daro, a ruined city in what is now Pakistan that contains the last traces of a 4,000-year-old civilisation that flourished on the banks of the river Indus, today entered the modern history books after government meteorologists recorded a temperature of 53.7C (129F). Only Al 'Aziziyah, in Libya (57.8C in 1922), Death valley in California (56.7 in 1913) and Tirat Zvi in Israel (53.9 in 1942) are thought to have been hotter.Temperatures in the nearest town, Larkana, have been only slightly lower in the last week, with 53C recorded last Wednesday. As the temperatures peaked, four people died, including a prisoner serving a life sentence for murder and an elderly woman. Dozens are said to have fainted.The extreme heat was exacerbated by chronic power cuts which have prevented people from using air-conditioning. The electricity has cut out for eight hours each day as part of a severe load-shedding regime that has caused riots in other parts of Pakistan where cities are experiencing a severe heatwave with temperatures of between 43C and 47C.\"It's very tough,\" said M B Kalhoro, a local correspondent for Dawn.com, an online newspaper. \"When the power is out, people just stay indoors all the time.\"The blistering heat now engulfing Pakistan stretches to India where more than 1,000 people have reportedly died of heatstroke or heart attacks in the last two months. Although Europe and China have experienced cooler than average winters, record or well-above average temperatures have been recorded in Tibet and Burma this year.Southern Europe was yesterday rapidly warming after a particularly cool winter. Thirteen provinces in southern Spain, including Andalucia, Murcia and the Canary islands, were put on \"yellow alert\" after meteorologists forecast temperatures rising to 38C (99F) in Cadiz, C\u00f3rdoba, Ja\u00e9n, Malaga and Seville.According to the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA), the national climate monitoring service that measures global temperatures by satellite, 2010 is shaping up to be one of the hottest years on record. The first four months were the hottest ever measured, with record spring temperatures in northern Africa, south Asia and Canada.The global temperature for March was a record 13.5C (56.3F) and average ocean temperatures were also the hottest for any March since record-keeping began in 1880.As a result of high sea surface temperatures, the Atlantic hurricane season, which officially started today is now expected to be one of the most intense in years. Last week NOAA predicted 14 to 23 named storms, including eight to 14 hurricanes, three to seven of which were likely to be \"major\" storms, with winds of at least 111mph. This is compared to an average six-month season of 11 named storms, six of which become hurricanes, two of them major.On Sunday, scientists reported that Africa's Lake Tanganyika, the second deepest freshwater lake in the world, is now at its warmest in 1,500 years, threatening the fishing industry on which several million lives depend. The lake's surface waters, at 26C (78.8F), have reached temperatures that are \"unprecedented since AD500,\" they reported in the journal Nature Geoscience.Some scientists have suggested that the warming experienced around the world this year is strongly linked to warmer than usual currents in the Pacific Ocean, a regular phenomenon known as El Ni\u00f1o. Others say that it is consistent with long-term climate change.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Pakistan", "World news", "Meteorology", "Climate change", "Science", "Climate change", "Environment", "Summer"], "title": "Temperatures reach record high in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-05-22T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Since \"Everybody Draw Mohammed Day!\" was announced on 20 May, those associated with its creation have been rushing around to distance themselves from the ensuing controversy. Cartoonist Molly Norris has announced, \"I am NOT involved!\" Apparently, Facebook user Jon Wellington used her cartoon to create the group. But even he has stepped back, \"Ya'll go ahead if that's your bag, but count me out.\" It's not so easy to step away from these developments, however.With a widening crackdown threatening Pakistan's 20 million internet users \u2013 Facebook was blocked first, on Thursday YouTube and Wikipedia were added to the list, and now Twitter \u2013 the Facebook ban is about more than a simple social networking site. While everyone, including the US state department, seems to want to clean their hands of this situation, neither Facebook nor Muslims can afford to step back. The question is, how to step up?Illustrations of the Prophet Muhammad are blasphemous in Islam. It is clear \u2013 and has been for some time \u2013 that the transnational Muslim community does not respond well to depictions of their beloved prophet, and neither is this breaking news. The violence and fury that resulted from the publication of 12 editorial cartoons by a Danish newspaper in 2005 are well-known. To whimsically revive the issue on the world's largest social networking site is an irresponsible poke-in-the-eye. Against this backdrop, then, the juvenile attempt to mock a holy figure in one of the world's largest religions deserves serious attention.While sensitivity to drawings may seem irrational to non-Muslims, many religions and cultures have sore spots that the world has learned to respect. Freedom of speech is a right, but this right is not befitting of irrationality. It should be treated like any other right afforded by civil liberties: with responsibility. And when it is abused, an apology or some form of resolution is in order.According to its own terms, conditions, and precedents, Facebook should have removed the group. Facebook's policy makes it clear that obscene content and the triggering of hate material toward any group, individual, or religion will be banned and removed. Last year, Facebook was quick to honour requests by Italian authorities to shut down a page dedicated to Massimo Tartaglia, the man who allegedly punched Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi at a political rally in Milan. No such urgency found its way to the controversy behind the \"Everybody Draw Mohammed Day\" page: only yesterday did Facebook shut it down.Unfortunately, because Facebook did not initially ban the page \u2013 despite requests \u2013 Pakistan banned Facebook. But Pakistan has millions of internet users and the banned sites constitute 25% of internet traffic. Many Pakistanis are asking why the sites were banned in their entirety, when the government might have launched a more effective and moderate response, including banning individual pages where possible.It may have never occurred to the government that the most effective response would have been to actually allow Pakistanis, in consonance with Muslims worldwide, on Facebook to express their own outrage. Muslims had already created Facebook groups in protest and such a viral campaign would have been a much more powerful, compelling, and dignified response than the reactionary shutdown. And it may have sparked more: negative images of the prophet could have been countered by using Facebook and YouTube to communicate his positive significance to Muslims in new and creative ways.Ironically, the current debacle provides Pakistanis with the best opportunity to demonstrate that Muslims can communicate their way out of a crisis. As Monis Rahman, head of one of Pakistan's largest internet companies states, \"There are too many assumptions being made about Pakistan's vibrant, educated internet community.\" But if westerners fail to note that this community exists in Pakistan, it's because their voices have been drowned out by Pakistan's reactionary authorities. Now is the time for Pakistan's internet community to engage in an organised and compelling dialogue: if not with the offenders, then most certainly with the rest of the world that is watching. Pakistanis need to take back the internet, and do for social liberties in Pakistan what the Lawyer's Movement once did for civil rights. At the same time, they will demonstrate to Muslims that there is a third way: organised communication is a more effective response to conflict than violence or silence.News of the ban on Twitter came as the keys on this unrestricted mac typed away. The question is: where does this end? Pakistan is not Iran \u2013 where rock music, western movies, and associating with the opposite sex can earn fines and lashes. But with Pakistan's internet authorities hunting out \"sacrilegious content\", it's not just about caricatures anymore. From the protests against drones, to frequent rallies by the religious right, Pakistanis have demonstrated their strength on the streets. Now is the time to demonstrate their power on the internet.  \u2022 This article was co-authoured by Nadia Naviwala, a student at the Kennedy School of Government, and fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.", "tags": ["Facebook", "Twitter", "YouTube", "Social networking", "Pakistan", "Censorship", "Internet", "Freedom of speech", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan's Facebook ban is not the answer | Bilal Baloch and Nadia Naviwala"},{"date": "2010-05-20T12:42:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Some of the internet's most popular websites were blocked in Pakistan today as officials sought to restrict access to provocative images depicting the prophet Muhammad that many Muslims consider blasphemous, amid fears of possible street violence.The government blocked the video-sharing website YouTube, one day after it banned Facebook, while users reported restrictions on Flickr and Wikipedia, prompting complaints from internet users but approval from angered protesters.The censorship revolves around a Facebook competition that has attracted hundreds of images depicting the prophet Muhammad, including depictions of a bearded figure as a pig and wearing a bikini. The Pakistan Telecommunications Authority, which controls internet access, said it had blocked YouTube because some users were using the video site to repost the offending Facebook images.BlackBerry service was also blocked for about 10 hours as government censors and mobile providers scrambled to find a way of blocking the offending pages without cutting off the entire internet.The crackdown started on Tuesday after an Islamic lawyers' association won a court injunction, first against the offending web page and later against the entire Facebook site. It will be reviewed on 31 May.Najibullah Malik, the civil servant heading the committee that implemented the ban, said it might be reviewed at a meeting next week. \"We decided that this kind of information was going to hurt people's feelings. We have directed the PTA to block all and any sites that display those caricatures,\" he told the Guardian.At one level, the controversy pits free speech fundamentalists in the west against religious extremists in Pakistan. Pakistani protesters accuse the government of crude censorship that is ineffectual because users can circumvent the restrictions through proxy servers.Emails with instructions on how to find proxy servers swirled around Pakistani cyberspace from early morning. Many vented their anger on Twitter, which experienced a surge in demand from Pakistanis starved of social networking opportunities. \"Way to go assholes. Why don't you just cut us off from the internet and get it over and done with,\" read one tweet.Pakistan has about 20 million internet users, 2.5 million of whom are members of Facebook.Government officials say they are acting pre-emptively to prevent a repeat of the 2006 cartoon riots that caused destruction of property and caused five deaths. But it was unclear whether the measures would satisfy the court or prevent disturbances.Even after Facebook was banned yesterday, Islamist groups took to the streets, mounting minor protests. More are feared following weekly prayers tomorrow.Inspired by an idea from a Seattle cartoonist, at least two Facebook pages are titled \"Everybody Draw Mohammad Day\", with combined membership of over 80,000 people and hundreds of controversial images. A website devoted to the idea has also been censored.Although the pages claim to be upholding the right to free speech, many users are using them to spread images that crudely lampoon Islam or cause gratuitous offence to its followers.The controversy poses a dilemma for Pakistan's minority liberals, many of whom oppose government censorship yet are also critical of western countries that allow the dissemination of hateful and potentially destabilising material.Hasan Zaidi, a journalist and film-maker, said he and other internet users planned to file a court petition against the ban. \"It's absurd,\" he said. \"They haven't thought this through. The logical conclusion is that we should shut our eyes, stick our fingers in our ears and ban the entire internet, even email.\"But Zaidi added that western countries with blasphemy laws protecting Christianity or preventing Holocaust denial were guilty of hypocrisy, and said he felt western rightwing extremists were using the controversy to heighten bigoted views.\"This sort of campaign to promote the right of free speech is very narrow minded and shallow,\" he said. \"I'm not discounting that those images are offensive to the vast majority of people. My issue is with the [government's] solution.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "YouTube", "Technology", "Censorship", "Facebook", "Internet", "Islam", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan blocks YouTube access over Muhammad depictions"},{"date": "2010-05-21T10:43:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A couple from Lancashire and their daughter were shot dead in Pakistan yesterday in a family dispute over their son's arranged marriage.Mohammad Yousaf, 51, his wife Parviaz, 49, and daughter Tania, 21, were killed at a cemetery in a village near Gujrat in north-east Pakistan.The killings followed a row over the relationship between a son of the Yousafs and a local woman, according to a family friend. Mohammed Iqbal said the family was killed while paying their respects during a visit to a cemetery.Two of the alleged gunmen were arrested and police were hunting two more suspects in connection with the attack, which left another woman dead.Iqbal, who sits on Pendle borough council and Lancashire county council, said: \"They were leaving the graveyard of someone that had passed away. It was a family dispute that obviously went horribly wrong. Mr Yousaf's son was married to a girl from Pakistan and there have been some problems with the marriage and that's the dispute that's happened.\"Two of the Yousafs' sons had returned early to Lancashire from Pakistan but had flown back after being told of the deaths.\"They went for a wedding and a holiday and they are now having to bury members of their family,\" Iqbal said.He said he had known Yousaf, a taxi driver for 20 years, and the whole family were devastated.Lancashire police said officers were providing support to family members in Nelson and working with Pakistani authorities.The family, who had lived in the UK for more than 30 years, had gone to Pakistan for their son's wedding.A spokesman said: \"Lancashire police have been informed of an incident in Pakistan which occurred in the early hours of 20 May. Three members of a family from Nelson who were visiting the country for a wedding were killed in a shooting incident.\"The circumstances surrounding the deaths are unclear at this time but police in Lancashire are liaising with the authorities in Pakistan to ascertain exactly what has happened.\"Officers are speaking with family members in Nelson and they are being offered support at this difficult time.\"The Foreign Office said it was investigating reports of the shooting.A spokesman for the British high commission in Islamabad said: \"We can confirm the death of three British nationals in Pakistan on 20 May. We have offered consular assistance to the family and we are in touch with the local authorities.\"Tributes were paid to Tania on a Facebook page set up in her memory.Steph Roden, wrote: \"It's awful that could happen to anyone. She was so innocent and quiet at school. God bless to all the family.\"Lisa Dickens said: \"My thoughts are with the family at this awful time.\"Tania, who had lived in Pakistan recently, worked for Liberata, which provides services on behalf of Pendle council in Lancashire.Her manager, Wendy Smith, told the Burnley Citizen: \"Tania was a hard working and conscientious member of the team who was always happy and one of the nicest people we have ever met.\" \"She had a lovely sense of humour and was always a team player. We are extremely shocked by this and our deepest sympathies go out to the family. She will be very sadly missed.\"A family friend and North West MEP, Sajjad Karim, told the paper that he would discuss the matter at a government level.\"The thing that is particularly concerning is the level of violence in Pakistan and how it is impacting on British Pakistanis,\" he said. \"Just a few weeks ago a man from Bolton was killed in Pakistan. There is a need perhaps to discuss this on a governmental level to see what support we can give to people who go over there to make sure they are provided with adequate security measures.\"Neighbours described the Yousafs as a friendly and popular family.\"They always use to say hello. It is awful news,\" Megan Wallwork told the Burnley Citizen: \"They were very nice people who have lived here for a few years and have always made an effort. They were friendly with everyone on the street.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "Pakistan"], "title": "British family shot dead in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-09-16T07:20:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Taliban have claimed responsibility for murdering journalist Misri Khan in Hangu, in the northwestern province of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, and have issued a threat to attack other journalists.A Taliban spokesman said: \"We killed him because he twisted the facts. He had a leaning towards the army in what he wrote... There will be other attacks against those who speak out against the Taliban.\"Khan was shot dead on Tuesday outside his office. He had previously told colleagues he had received threats. His agency's office had also been set on fire.Source: Reporters Without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Taliban", "Pakistan", "Journalist safety", "Press freedom", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan Taliban murder journalist"},{"date": "2010-09-16T07:20:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Taliban have claimed responsibility for murdering journalist Misri Khan in Hangu, in the northwestern province of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, and have issued a threat to attack other journalists.A Taliban spokesman said: \"We killed him because he twisted the facts. He had a leaning towards the army in what he wrote... There will be other attacks against those who speak out against the Taliban.\"Khan was shot dead on Tuesday outside his office. He had previously told colleagues he had received threats. His agency's office had also been set on fire.Source: Reporters Without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Taliban", "Pakistan", "Journalist safety", "Press freedom", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan Taliban murder journalist"},{"date": "2010-09-20T07:38:59Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Abdul Rehman Afridi, editor of Daily Sitara in the Pakistan city of Jacobabad in Sindh province, was beaten up by a gang for publishing stories about alleged mismanagement in the distribution of flood relief by the district government.Afridi claims his beating was at the hands of supporters of Mir Aijaz Hussain Khan Jakhrani, the federal minister for sports.According to press reports, Jakhrani arrived at the newspaper's office with five men and, after threatening Afridi, they attacked him with wooden sticks. He was treated in hospital for injuries to his arms, shoulder, back and legs. Source: IFEX", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "World news"], "title": "Gang beat up Pakistan editor"},{"date": "2010-10-05T15:16:46Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Escalating US cross-border military incursions into Pakistan suggest the Obama administration has lost patience with Islamabad's failure to stop militants using the tribal areas as launchpads for attacks on Nato forces in Afghanistan and safe havens for training foreign-born terrorists.As attacks involving American helicopter gunships and unmanned drones rise sharply, Washington's blunt message to Islamabad is: \"If you can't or won't take care of the problem, we will.\" Last week, interior minister Rehman Malik offered a blunt riposte: \"We will have to see whether we are allies or enemies.\"The new strategy is high-risk. Public fury at the incursions, which caused the closure of a key Khyber Pass supply route, may further undermine Pakistan's civilian president, Asif Ali Zardari. It could alienate the Pakistani security apparatus and fuel jihadi recruitment. It is an embarrassment for Nato's allies, who have no control over US special forces or CIA operations. And it resurrects the dread prospect of a wider, regional war spreading outwards from Afghanistan.But Barack Obama, egged on by his new Afghanistan commander, General David Petraeus, and under pressure to meet his self-imposed withdrawal schedule, appears determined to take the fight to the enemy \u2013 even if it means waging war inside another sovereign state.Last month saw 22 cross-border CIA drone attacks on Taliban or al-Qaida-linked militants, nearly double the previous monthly record, and three reported helicopter raids. One helicopter attack last Thursday killed three Pakistani soldiers. On Monday, eight supposed terrorists of German nationality were killed.Obama's policy is rooted in an executive order signed by George Bush in July 2008 sanctioning secret cross-border counter-terrorist operations. In September that year US commandos launched a ground raid into Pakistan. The ensuing uproar meant that future ground operations mostly stopped. But aerial attacks using Predator and Reaper drones have steadily increased.Anthony Cordesman, writing in the National Interest, said there were 35 drone attacks in 2008, 55 in 2009, and 77 in the first nine months of 2010, according to information collated by Long War Journal. But it was wrong to present the rise as a \"massive bombing campaign\" causing numerous civilian casualties, he said.\"This rise in strike numbers is a kind of 'surge' but it adds up to 175 strikes over the entire [Afghan] war, and of these strikes, 65% have been concentrated in North Waziristan, [in the tribal areas] where the Pakistani army has been unwilling or unable to act.\" Cordesman also said improved rules of engagement had reduced civilian casualties.US reports say all but three of last month's cross-border operations were aimed at the Haqqani terrorist network in North Waziristan, which Nato blames for an upsurge in violence in adjacent east Afghanistan. Jalaluddin Haqqani, the network's leader, has close links to Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency. The ISI supposedly hopes to use the network to manipulate events in Afghanistan after the US withdrawal \u2013 and is thus reluctant to act against it.American officials say North Waziristan is also used by al-Qaida as a base for organising and planning terrorist operations overseas, such as the recently reported plots targeting Britain, France and Germany.American concerns intensified last spring when it emerged that the failed Times Square bomber in New York had trained in Pakistan. Intelligence agencies say European-born would-be jihadis, frequently of Pakistani, Afghan or North African descent, receive training in the tribal areas. This is the context of Monday's attack on the German nationals.Obama raised these issues in a letter to Zardari last November, warning that the US would be forced to act if Pakistan did not. The army made no move \u2013 and US patience finally snapped. \"The CIA sought more resources, which the White House strongly supported \u2026 The results speak for themselves,\" an unnamed official told the Washington Post.The expansion of US operations inside Pakistan appears to break even an informal, officially disavowed agreement concerning so-called \"flight boxes\", which sets limits on the area of drone operations. But in its mania for killing real or imagined terrorists, anywhere and everywhere, Washington does not seem to care.Nor do Pakistan's protests or worries about provoking a wider war cut much ice. \"Fighting a war in Afghanistan that has given the enemy a sanctuary in Pakistan, and al-Qaida immunity in Pakistan, has little point,\" Cordesman said, indirectly answering Rehman Malik's question about allies or enemies. \"More bluntly, if Pakistan cannot provide at least enough co-operation to passively allow such strikes, it is not an ally, it is a major strategic liability.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Warzone Pakistan | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-10-05T15:16:46Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Escalating US cross-border military incursions into Pakistan suggest the Obama administration has lost patience with Islamabad's failure to stop militants using the tribal areas as launchpads for attacks on Nato forces in Afghanistan and safe havens for training foreign-born terrorists.As attacks involving American helicopter gunships and unmanned drones rise sharply, Washington's blunt message to Islamabad is: \"If you can't or won't take care of the problem, we will.\" Last week, interior minister Rehman Malik offered a blunt riposte: \"We will have to see whether we are allies or enemies.\"The new strategy is high-risk. Public fury at the incursions, which caused the closure of a key Khyber Pass supply route, may further undermine Pakistan's civilian president, Asif Ali Zardari. It could alienate the Pakistani security apparatus and fuel jihadi recruitment. It is an embarrassment for Nato's allies, who have no control over US special forces or CIA operations. And it resurrects the dread prospect of a wider, regional war spreading outwards from Afghanistan.But Barack Obama, egged on by his new Afghanistan commander, General David Petraeus, and under pressure to meet his self-imposed withdrawal schedule, appears determined to take the fight to the enemy \u2013 even if it means waging war inside another sovereign state.Last month saw 22 cross-border CIA drone attacks on Taliban or al-Qaida-linked militants, nearly double the previous monthly record, and three reported helicopter raids. One helicopter attack last Thursday killed three Pakistani soldiers. On Monday, eight supposed terrorists of German nationality were killed.Obama's policy is rooted in an executive order signed by George Bush in July 2008 sanctioning secret cross-border counter-terrorist operations. In September that year US commandos launched a ground raid into Pakistan. The ensuing uproar meant that future ground operations mostly stopped. But aerial attacks using Predator and Reaper drones have steadily increased.Anthony Cordesman, writing in the National Interest, said there were 35 drone attacks in 2008, 55 in 2009, and 77 in the first nine months of 2010, according to information collated by Long War Journal. But it was wrong to present the rise as a \"massive bombing campaign\" causing numerous civilian casualties, he said.\"This rise in strike numbers is a kind of 'surge' but it adds up to 175 strikes over the entire [Afghan] war, and of these strikes, 65% have been concentrated in North Waziristan, [in the tribal areas] where the Pakistani army has been unwilling or unable to act.\" Cordesman also said improved rules of engagement had reduced civilian casualties.US reports say all but three of last month's cross-border operations were aimed at the Haqqani terrorist network in North Waziristan, which Nato blames for an upsurge in violence in adjacent east Afghanistan. Jalaluddin Haqqani, the network's leader, has close links to Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency. The ISI supposedly hopes to use the network to manipulate events in Afghanistan after the US withdrawal \u2013 and is thus reluctant to act against it.American officials say North Waziristan is also used by al-Qaida as a base for organising and planning terrorist operations overseas, such as the recently reported plots targeting Britain, France and Germany.American concerns intensified last spring when it emerged that the failed Times Square bomber in New York had trained in Pakistan. Intelligence agencies say European-born would-be jihadis, frequently of Pakistani, Afghan or North African descent, receive training in the tribal areas. This is the context of Monday's attack on the German nationals.Obama raised these issues in a letter to Zardari last November, warning that the US would be forced to act if Pakistan did not. The army made no move \u2013 and US patience finally snapped. \"The CIA sought more resources, which the White House strongly supported \u2026 The results speak for themselves,\" an unnamed official told the Washington Post.The expansion of US operations inside Pakistan appears to break even an informal, officially disavowed agreement concerning so-called \"flight boxes\", which sets limits on the area of drone operations. But in its mania for killing real or imagined terrorists, anywhere and everywhere, Washington does not seem to care.Nor do Pakistan's protests or worries about provoking a wider war cut much ice. \"Fighting a war in Afghanistan that has given the enemy a sanctuary in Pakistan, and al-Qaida immunity in Pakistan, has little point,\" Cordesman said, indirectly answering Rehman Malik's question about allies or enemies. \"More bluntly, if Pakistan cannot provide at least enough co-operation to passively allow such strikes, it is not an ally, it is a major strategic liability.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Warzone Pakistan | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-11-25T08:15:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The bullet-ridden body of journalist Lala Hameed Baloch, who disappeared last month in the Pakistan province of Balochistan, has been found with a note saying: \"Eid present for the Baloch people.\"Hameed, a reporter and photographer for daily titles Karachi and Tawar, was also president of the Baloch national movement, a political organisation pressing for an autonomous Balochistan. Local journalists believe his critical reporting about the Pakistani authorities and his support for the movement were the motive for his abduction and murder. They claim Pakistan's security officials were involved in his murder.Two other journalists were killed in Balochistan's capital, Quetta, earlier this year.Source: IFEX", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom"], "title": "Journalist murdered in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-10-05T15:16:46Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Escalating US cross-border military incursions into Pakistan suggest the Obama administration has lost patience with Islamabad's failure to stop militants using the tribal areas as launchpads for attacks on Nato forces in Afghanistan and safe havens for training foreign-born terrorists.As attacks involving American helicopter gunships and unmanned drones rise sharply, Washington's blunt message to Islamabad is: \"If you can't or won't take care of the problem, we will.\" Last week, interior minister Rehman Malik offered a blunt riposte: \"We will have to see whether we are allies or enemies.\"The new strategy is high-risk. Public fury at the incursions, which caused the closure of a key Khyber Pass supply route, may further undermine Pakistan's civilian president, Asif Ali Zardari. It could alienate the Pakistani security apparatus and fuel jihadi recruitment. It is an embarrassment for Nato's allies, who have no control over US special forces or CIA operations. And it resurrects the dread prospect of a wider, regional war spreading outwards from Afghanistan.But Barack Obama, egged on by his new Afghanistan commander, General David Petraeus, and under pressure to meet his self-imposed withdrawal schedule, appears determined to take the fight to the enemy \u2013 even if it means waging war inside another sovereign state.Last month saw 22 cross-border CIA drone attacks on Taliban or al-Qaida-linked militants, nearly double the previous monthly record, and three reported helicopter raids. One helicopter attack last Thursday killed three Pakistani soldiers. On Monday, eight supposed terrorists of German nationality were killed.Obama's policy is rooted in an executive order signed by George Bush in July 2008 sanctioning secret cross-border counter-terrorist operations. In September that year US commandos launched a ground raid into Pakistan. The ensuing uproar meant that future ground operations mostly stopped. But aerial attacks using Predator and Reaper drones have steadily increased.Anthony Cordesman, writing in the National Interest, said there were 35 drone attacks in 2008, 55 in 2009, and 77 in the first nine months of 2010, according to information collated by Long War Journal. But it was wrong to present the rise as a \"massive bombing campaign\" causing numerous civilian casualties, he said.\"This rise in strike numbers is a kind of 'surge' but it adds up to 175 strikes over the entire [Afghan] war, and of these strikes, 65% have been concentrated in North Waziristan, [in the tribal areas] where the Pakistani army has been unwilling or unable to act.\" Cordesman also said improved rules of engagement had reduced civilian casualties.US reports say all but three of last month's cross-border operations were aimed at the Haqqani terrorist network in North Waziristan, which Nato blames for an upsurge in violence in adjacent east Afghanistan. Jalaluddin Haqqani, the network's leader, has close links to Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency. The ISI supposedly hopes to use the network to manipulate events in Afghanistan after the US withdrawal \u2013 and is thus reluctant to act against it.American officials say North Waziristan is also used by al-Qaida as a base for organising and planning terrorist operations overseas, such as the recently reported plots targeting Britain, France and Germany.American concerns intensified last spring when it emerged that the failed Times Square bomber in New York had trained in Pakistan. Intelligence agencies say European-born would-be jihadis, frequently of Pakistani, Afghan or North African descent, receive training in the tribal areas. This is the context of Monday's attack on the German nationals.Obama raised these issues in a letter to Zardari last November, warning that the US would be forced to act if Pakistan did not. The army made no move \u2013 and US patience finally snapped. \"The CIA sought more resources, which the White House strongly supported \u2026 The results speak for themselves,\" an unnamed official told the Washington Post.The expansion of US operations inside Pakistan appears to break even an informal, officially disavowed agreement concerning so-called \"flight boxes\", which sets limits on the area of drone operations. But in its mania for killing real or imagined terrorists, anywhere and everywhere, Washington does not seem to care.Nor do Pakistan's protests or worries about provoking a wider war cut much ice. \"Fighting a war in Afghanistan that has given the enemy a sanctuary in Pakistan, and al-Qaida immunity in Pakistan, has little point,\" Cordesman said, indirectly answering Rehman Malik's question about allies or enemies. \"More bluntly, if Pakistan cannot provide at least enough co-operation to passively allow such strikes, it is not an ally, it is a major strategic liability.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Warzone Pakistan | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-11-25T08:15:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The bullet-ridden body of journalist Lala Hameed Baloch, who disappeared last month in the Pakistan province of Balochistan, has been found with a note saying: \"Eid present for the Baloch people.\"Hameed, a reporter and photographer for daily titles Karachi and Tawar, was also president of the Baloch national movement, a political organisation pressing for an autonomous Balochistan. Local journalists believe his critical reporting about the Pakistani authorities and his support for the movement were the motive for his abduction and murder. They claim Pakistan's security officials were involved in his murder.Two other journalists were killed in Balochistan's capital, Quetta, earlier this year.Source: IFEX", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom"], "title": "Journalist murdered in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-12-27T14:00:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani banker told his story nervously, kneading his hands as he spoke. His wife had deserted him, his family was furious, and his career had stalled. \"My problem is whisky,\" he said, shaking his head with regret.The 32-year-old professional was sitting in an addiction clinic, hidden down a quiet street in the capital, Islamabad. He had relapsed from the expensive treatment programme twice already; now he had been dry for more than three months. \"This time it's for good,\" he said, with just a glimmer of self-doubt.Pakistan has been dry for much longer \u2013 since 1977 \u2013 and drinkers risk severe punishment: 80 lashes of the whip under strict Islamic laws. But the law is ignored, alcohol is widely available and, for those who go too far, addiction clinics offering help are quietly flourishing.\"There's plenty of business,\" said Dr Sadaqat Ali, a leading addiction counsellor whose chain of clinics treated 500 alcoholics this year. Dr Ali estimates that 10 million Pakistanis drink alcohol, 1 million of whom have a problem. \"With our culture of hospitality, it's hard to say 'no',\" he said.Earlier this month cricket authorities mounted an investigation into claims that a national player, Mohammad Sami, was involved in a drunken brawl in a Rawalpindi hotel. The 29-year-old test bowler denied he had been drinking, calling the row a \"misunderstanding\".Demand for alcoholism counselling is so brisk that many clinics now take out prominent newspaper ads, some depicting a depressed man nursing a glass of scotch \u2013 a rare public nod towards a thinly veiled drinking culture.Waiters serve scotch on the sidelines of society weddings and corporate functions; ministers drink openly at functions but hide their glasses when photographers come round. Bootleggers offer home delivery, so that ordering a bottle of booze is as easy as calling for a pizza, and likely to arrive more quickly.The last time a Pakistani drinker received 80 lashes was under the Islamist dictator Zia ul-Haq in the 1980s; these days the culture has changed. Former president Pervez Musharraf made little secret of his fondness for a drink; neither does his successor, Asif Ali Zardari.The less well-off drink homemade hooch, which can have a nasty kick: three years ago 50 Karachi residents died, and more went blind, from a bad batch of moonshine. But for the rich, the risk is in drinking too much of the good stuff. Dr Ali has counted bureaucrats, politicians, army generals and even the families of mullahs among his clients. \"That's our target market. We call it the golden triangle: rich, educated and influential,\"\u00a0he said.Treatment is expensive by local standards, typically costing upwards of \u00a385 a night. It's not quite the Betty Ford clinic: clients stay in a modest room and are forced to engage in intense counselling involving their own relatives. Controversially, some clinics have engaged in \"forceful\" interventions, drugging alcoholics at the instigation of desperate relatives to kickstart the cure.The other option is Alcoholics Anonymous, which has at least one group in Karachi. Unlike the clinics it is hard to find: no ads, no phone numbers, just a simple web page. \"Most people find it through word of mouth,\" said a former member, adding that it has operated for more than 15 years.Some years ago a handful of parliamentarians argued for a reversal of the alcohol law, but with the rise of the Taliban such talk has receded: in 2007 a suicide bomber set off his device outside a beer shop in the Islamabad Marriott Hotel.Alcoholics seeking help require discretion. But in Pakistan's small middle class, that can be tricky. The former AA member recognised several other members at the meeting: \"It should be called A, not AA, in Pakistan \u2013 because there's not much anonymity.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Alcoholism"], "title": "Alcoholism booms in 'dry' Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-10-05T15:16:46Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Escalating US cross-border military incursions into Pakistan suggest the Obama administration has lost patience with Islamabad's failure to stop militants using the tribal areas as launchpads for attacks on Nato forces in Afghanistan and safe havens for training foreign-born terrorists.As attacks involving American helicopter gunships and unmanned drones rise sharply, Washington's blunt message to Islamabad is: \"If you can't or won't take care of the problem, we will.\" Last week, interior minister Rehman Malik offered a blunt riposte: \"We will have to see whether we are allies or enemies.\"The new strategy is high-risk. Public fury at the incursions, which caused the closure of a key Khyber Pass supply route, may further undermine Pakistan's civilian president, Asif Ali Zardari. It could alienate the Pakistani security apparatus and fuel jihadi recruitment. It is an embarrassment for Nato's allies, who have no control over US special forces or CIA operations. And it resurrects the dread prospect of a wider, regional war spreading outwards from Afghanistan.But Barack Obama, egged on by his new Afghanistan commander, General David Petraeus, and under pressure to meet his self-imposed withdrawal schedule, appears determined to take the fight to the enemy \u2013 even if it means waging war inside another sovereign state.Last month saw 22 cross-border CIA drone attacks on Taliban or al-Qaida-linked militants, nearly double the previous monthly record, and three reported helicopter raids. One helicopter attack last Thursday killed three Pakistani soldiers. On Monday, eight supposed terrorists of German nationality were killed.Obama's policy is rooted in an executive order signed by George Bush in July 2008 sanctioning secret cross-border counter-terrorist operations. In September that year US commandos launched a ground raid into Pakistan. The ensuing uproar meant that future ground operations mostly stopped. But aerial attacks using Predator and Reaper drones have steadily increased.Anthony Cordesman, writing in the National Interest, said there were 35 drone attacks in 2008, 55 in 2009, and 77 in the first nine months of 2010, according to information collated by Long War Journal. But it was wrong to present the rise as a \"massive bombing campaign\" causing numerous civilian casualties, he said.\"This rise in strike numbers is a kind of 'surge' but it adds up to 175 strikes over the entire [Afghan] war, and of these strikes, 65% have been concentrated in North Waziristan, [in the tribal areas] where the Pakistani army has been unwilling or unable to act.\" Cordesman also said improved rules of engagement had reduced civilian casualties.US reports say all but three of last month's cross-border operations were aimed at the Haqqani terrorist network in North Waziristan, which Nato blames for an upsurge in violence in adjacent east Afghanistan. Jalaluddin Haqqani, the network's leader, has close links to Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency. The ISI supposedly hopes to use the network to manipulate events in Afghanistan after the US withdrawal \u2013 and is thus reluctant to act against it.American officials say North Waziristan is also used by al-Qaida as a base for organising and planning terrorist operations overseas, such as the recently reported plots targeting Britain, France and Germany.American concerns intensified last spring when it emerged that the failed Times Square bomber in New York had trained in Pakistan. Intelligence agencies say European-born would-be jihadis, frequently of Pakistani, Afghan or North African descent, receive training in the tribal areas. This is the context of Monday's attack on the German nationals.Obama raised these issues in a letter to Zardari last November, warning that the US would be forced to act if Pakistan did not. The army made no move \u2013 and US patience finally snapped. \"The CIA sought more resources, which the White House strongly supported \u2026 The results speak for themselves,\" an unnamed official told the Washington Post.The expansion of US operations inside Pakistan appears to break even an informal, officially disavowed agreement concerning so-called \"flight boxes\", which sets limits on the area of drone operations. But in its mania for killing real or imagined terrorists, anywhere and everywhere, Washington does not seem to care.Nor do Pakistan's protests or worries about provoking a wider war cut much ice. \"Fighting a war in Afghanistan that has given the enemy a sanctuary in Pakistan, and al-Qaida immunity in Pakistan, has little point,\" Cordesman said, indirectly answering Rehman Malik's question about allies or enemies. \"More bluntly, if Pakistan cannot provide at least enough co-operation to passively allow such strikes, it is not an ally, it is a major strategic liability.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Warzone Pakistan | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-11-25T08:15:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The bullet-ridden body of journalist Lala Hameed Baloch, who disappeared last month in the Pakistan province of Balochistan, has been found with a note saying: \"Eid present for the Baloch people.\"Hameed, a reporter and photographer for daily titles Karachi and Tawar, was also president of the Baloch national movement, a political organisation pressing for an autonomous Balochistan. Local journalists believe his critical reporting about the Pakistani authorities and his support for the movement were the motive for his abduction and murder. They claim Pakistan's security officials were involved in his murder.Two other journalists were killed in Balochistan's capital, Quetta, earlier this year.Source: IFEX", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom"], "title": "Journalist murdered in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-12-27T14:00:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani banker told his story nervously, kneading his hands as he spoke. His wife had deserted him, his family was furious, and his career had stalled. \"My problem is whisky,\" he said, shaking his head with regret.The 32-year-old professional was sitting in an addiction clinic, hidden down a quiet street in the capital, Islamabad. He had relapsed from the expensive treatment programme twice already; now he had been dry for more than three months. \"This time it's for good,\" he said, with just a glimmer of self-doubt.Pakistan has been dry for much longer \u2013 since 1977 \u2013 and drinkers risk severe punishment: 80 lashes of the whip under strict Islamic laws. But the law is ignored, alcohol is widely available and, for those who go too far, addiction clinics offering help are quietly flourishing.\"There's plenty of business,\" said Dr Sadaqat Ali, a leading addiction counsellor whose chain of clinics treated 500 alcoholics this year. Dr Ali estimates that 10 million Pakistanis drink alcohol, 1 million of whom have a problem. \"With our culture of hospitality, it's hard to say 'no',\" he said.Earlier this month cricket authorities mounted an investigation into claims that a national player, Mohammad Sami, was involved in a drunken brawl in a Rawalpindi hotel. The 29-year-old test bowler denied he had been drinking, calling the row a \"misunderstanding\".Demand for alcoholism counselling is so brisk that many clinics now take out prominent newspaper ads, some depicting a depressed man nursing a glass of scotch \u2013 a rare public nod towards a thinly veiled drinking culture.Waiters serve scotch on the sidelines of society weddings and corporate functions; ministers drink openly at functions but hide their glasses when photographers come round. Bootleggers offer home delivery, so that ordering a bottle of booze is as easy as calling for a pizza, and likely to arrive more quickly.The last time a Pakistani drinker received 80 lashes was under the Islamist dictator Zia ul-Haq in the 1980s; these days the culture has changed. Former president Pervez Musharraf made little secret of his fondness for a drink; neither does his successor, Asif Ali Zardari.The less well-off drink homemade hooch, which can have a nasty kick: three years ago 50 Karachi residents died, and more went blind, from a bad batch of moonshine. But for the rich, the risk is in drinking too much of the good stuff. Dr Ali has counted bureaucrats, politicians, army generals and even the families of mullahs among his clients. \"That's our target market. We call it the golden triangle: rich, educated and influential,\"\u00a0he said.Treatment is expensive by local standards, typically costing upwards of \u00a385 a night. It's not quite the Betty Ford clinic: clients stay in a modest room and are forced to engage in intense counselling involving their own relatives. Controversially, some clinics have engaged in \"forceful\" interventions, drugging alcoholics at the instigation of desperate relatives to kickstart the cure.The other option is Alcoholics Anonymous, which has at least one group in Karachi. Unlike the clinics it is hard to find: no ads, no phone numbers, just a simple web page. \"Most people find it through word of mouth,\" said a former member, adding that it has operated for more than 15 years.Some years ago a handful of parliamentarians argued for a reversal of the alcohol law, but with the rise of the Taliban such talk has receded: in 2007 a suicide bomber set off his device outside a beer shop in the Islamabad Marriott Hotel.Alcoholics seeking help require discretion. But in Pakistan's small middle class, that can be tricky. The former AA member recognised several other members at the meeting: \"It should be called A, not AA, in Pakistan \u2013 because there's not much anonymity.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Alcoholism"], "title": "Alcoholism booms in 'dry' Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-12-27T08:00:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With three million people affected by the floods in Pakistan during the first week of August, it was hard to imagine what pundits and experts meant when they said the disaster was only in its initial stages. Over the next month, as the flood waters moved down the length (and to some extent, along the breadth) of the country, the unimaginable unfolded. Twenty-one million people were made homeless, one-fifth of the nation was submerged, an estimated 17 million acres of the most fertile arable land was destroyed \u2013 this in a poor country with an agrarian-based economy. Homelessness, poverty, food shortages, unemployment, water-borne diseases, debt \u2013 the list of consequences, both long-term and short-term, began to become more terrifyingly clear even as the swollen waters of the Indus river finally spilled out into the ocean in mid-September, having obliterated thousands of villages and towns.The scale of the disaster was \u2013 even in comparison with the tsunamis and earthquakes and hurricanes of the last few years \u2013 unprecedented. What was needed in response was an unprecedented humanitarian effort by the world community. Various theories were thrown around about why this response was not forthcoming \u2013 in addition to the now familiar \"donor fatigue\", there was the added element, particular to Pakistan, of \"image deficit\" (a phrase that encompassed both a lack of sympathy for the Pakistanis who were suffering, and lack of trust that anyone in Pakistan's government would correctly allocate humanitarian donations \u2013 never mind that those donations could go directly to the world's most reputed aid agencies).Despite pleas and promises, to date the UN flood appeal is only 50% funded. In the late summer there was a flurry of donations, but those have slowed dramatically now that the story has left the news headlines (the flood waters have not, of course, evaporated from the submerged lands with the same speed). Relief agencies are struggling to deal with the shortfall, which is adding further stress to a situation already made unmanageable by its sheer scale. With winter settling in, the situation of the millions who are still homeless is becoming even more desperate. In a video for Oxfam a few weeks ago a woman who had lost her home to the floods stated it simply: \"We are under the sky in this cold and our children are in a miserable condition.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "Flooding", "Deforestation"], "title": "What happened next? Pakistan floods"},{"date": "2010-10-05T15:16:46Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Escalating US cross-border military incursions into Pakistan suggest the Obama administration has lost patience with Islamabad's failure to stop militants using the tribal areas as launchpads for attacks on Nato forces in Afghanistan and safe havens for training foreign-born terrorists.As attacks involving American helicopter gunships and unmanned drones rise sharply, Washington's blunt message to Islamabad is: \"If you can't or won't take care of the problem, we will.\" Last week, interior minister Rehman Malik offered a blunt riposte: \"We will have to see whether we are allies or enemies.\"The new strategy is high-risk. Public fury at the incursions, which caused the closure of a key Khyber Pass supply route, may further undermine Pakistan's civilian president, Asif Ali Zardari. It could alienate the Pakistani security apparatus and fuel jihadi recruitment. It is an embarrassment for Nato's allies, who have no control over US special forces or CIA operations. And it resurrects the dread prospect of a wider, regional war spreading outwards from Afghanistan.But Barack Obama, egged on by his new Afghanistan commander, General David Petraeus, and under pressure to meet his self-imposed withdrawal schedule, appears determined to take the fight to the enemy \u2013 even if it means waging war inside another sovereign state.Last month saw 22 cross-border CIA drone attacks on Taliban or al-Qaida-linked militants, nearly double the previous monthly record, and three reported helicopter raids. One helicopter attack last Thursday killed three Pakistani soldiers. On Monday, eight supposed terrorists of German nationality were killed.Obama's policy is rooted in an executive order signed by George Bush in July 2008 sanctioning secret cross-border counter-terrorist operations. In September that year US commandos launched a ground raid into Pakistan. The ensuing uproar meant that future ground operations mostly stopped. But aerial attacks using Predator and Reaper drones have steadily increased.Anthony Cordesman, writing in the National Interest, said there were 35 drone attacks in 2008, 55 in 2009, and 77 in the first nine months of 2010, according to information collated by Long War Journal. But it was wrong to present the rise as a \"massive bombing campaign\" causing numerous civilian casualties, he said.\"This rise in strike numbers is a kind of 'surge' but it adds up to 175 strikes over the entire [Afghan] war, and of these strikes, 65% have been concentrated in North Waziristan, [in the tribal areas] where the Pakistani army has been unwilling or unable to act.\" Cordesman also said improved rules of engagement had reduced civilian casualties.US reports say all but three of last month's cross-border operations were aimed at the Haqqani terrorist network in North Waziristan, which Nato blames for an upsurge in violence in adjacent east Afghanistan. Jalaluddin Haqqani, the network's leader, has close links to Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency. The ISI supposedly hopes to use the network to manipulate events in Afghanistan after the US withdrawal \u2013 and is thus reluctant to act against it.American officials say North Waziristan is also used by al-Qaida as a base for organising and planning terrorist operations overseas, such as the recently reported plots targeting Britain, France and Germany.American concerns intensified last spring when it emerged that the failed Times Square bomber in New York had trained in Pakistan. Intelligence agencies say European-born would-be jihadis, frequently of Pakistani, Afghan or North African descent, receive training in the tribal areas. This is the context of Monday's attack on the German nationals.Obama raised these issues in a letter to Zardari last November, warning that the US would be forced to act if Pakistan did not. The army made no move \u2013 and US patience finally snapped. \"The CIA sought more resources, which the White House strongly supported \u2026 The results speak for themselves,\" an unnamed official told the Washington Post.The expansion of US operations inside Pakistan appears to break even an informal, officially disavowed agreement concerning so-called \"flight boxes\", which sets limits on the area of drone operations. But in its mania for killing real or imagined terrorists, anywhere and everywhere, Washington does not seem to care.Nor do Pakistan's protests or worries about provoking a wider war cut much ice. \"Fighting a war in Afghanistan that has given the enemy a sanctuary in Pakistan, and al-Qaida immunity in Pakistan, has little point,\" Cordesman said, indirectly answering Rehman Malik's question about allies or enemies. \"More bluntly, if Pakistan cannot provide at least enough co-operation to passively allow such strikes, it is not an ally, it is a major strategic liability.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Warzone Pakistan | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-11-25T08:15:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The bullet-ridden body of journalist Lala Hameed Baloch, who disappeared last month in the Pakistan province of Balochistan, has been found with a note saying: \"Eid present for the Baloch people.\"Hameed, a reporter and photographer for daily titles Karachi and Tawar, was also president of the Baloch national movement, a political organisation pressing for an autonomous Balochistan. Local journalists believe his critical reporting about the Pakistani authorities and his support for the movement were the motive for his abduction and murder. They claim Pakistan's security officials were involved in his murder.Two other journalists were killed in Balochistan's capital, Quetta, earlier this year.Source: IFEX", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom"], "title": "Journalist murdered in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-12-27T14:00:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani banker told his story nervously, kneading his hands as he spoke. His wife had deserted him, his family was furious, and his career had stalled. \"My problem is whisky,\" he said, shaking his head with regret.The 32-year-old professional was sitting in an addiction clinic, hidden down a quiet street in the capital, Islamabad. He had relapsed from the expensive treatment programme twice already; now he had been dry for more than three months. \"This time it's for good,\" he said, with just a glimmer of self-doubt.Pakistan has been dry for much longer \u2013 since 1977 \u2013 and drinkers risk severe punishment: 80 lashes of the whip under strict Islamic laws. But the law is ignored, alcohol is widely available and, for those who go too far, addiction clinics offering help are quietly flourishing.\"There's plenty of business,\" said Dr Sadaqat Ali, a leading addiction counsellor whose chain of clinics treated 500 alcoholics this year. Dr Ali estimates that 10 million Pakistanis drink alcohol, 1 million of whom have a problem. \"With our culture of hospitality, it's hard to say 'no',\" he said.Earlier this month cricket authorities mounted an investigation into claims that a national player, Mohammad Sami, was involved in a drunken brawl in a Rawalpindi hotel. The 29-year-old test bowler denied he had been drinking, calling the row a \"misunderstanding\".Demand for alcoholism counselling is so brisk that many clinics now take out prominent newspaper ads, some depicting a depressed man nursing a glass of scotch \u2013 a rare public nod towards a thinly veiled drinking culture.Waiters serve scotch on the sidelines of society weddings and corporate functions; ministers drink openly at functions but hide their glasses when photographers come round. Bootleggers offer home delivery, so that ordering a bottle of booze is as easy as calling for a pizza, and likely to arrive more quickly.The last time a Pakistani drinker received 80 lashes was under the Islamist dictator Zia ul-Haq in the 1980s; these days the culture has changed. Former president Pervez Musharraf made little secret of his fondness for a drink; neither does his successor, Asif Ali Zardari.The less well-off drink homemade hooch, which can have a nasty kick: three years ago 50 Karachi residents died, and more went blind, from a bad batch of moonshine. But for the rich, the risk is in drinking too much of the good stuff. Dr Ali has counted bureaucrats, politicians, army generals and even the families of mullahs among his clients. \"That's our target market. We call it the golden triangle: rich, educated and influential,\"\u00a0he said.Treatment is expensive by local standards, typically costing upwards of \u00a385 a night. It's not quite the Betty Ford clinic: clients stay in a modest room and are forced to engage in intense counselling involving their own relatives. Controversially, some clinics have engaged in \"forceful\" interventions, drugging alcoholics at the instigation of desperate relatives to kickstart the cure.The other option is Alcoholics Anonymous, which has at least one group in Karachi. Unlike the clinics it is hard to find: no ads, no phone numbers, just a simple web page. \"Most people find it through word of mouth,\" said a former member, adding that it has operated for more than 15 years.Some years ago a handful of parliamentarians argued for a reversal of the alcohol law, but with the rise of the Taliban such talk has receded: in 2007 a suicide bomber set off his device outside a beer shop in the Islamabad Marriott Hotel.Alcoholics seeking help require discretion. But in Pakistan's small middle class, that can be tricky. The former AA member recognised several other members at the meeting: \"It should be called A, not AA, in Pakistan \u2013 because there's not much anonymity.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Alcoholism"], "title": "Alcoholism booms in 'dry' Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-12-27T08:00:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With three million people affected by the floods in Pakistan during the first week of August, it was hard to imagine what pundits and experts meant when they said the disaster was only in its initial stages. Over the next month, as the flood waters moved down the length (and to some extent, along the breadth) of the country, the unimaginable unfolded. Twenty-one million people were made homeless, one-fifth of the nation was submerged, an estimated 17 million acres of the most fertile arable land was destroyed \u2013 this in a poor country with an agrarian-based economy. Homelessness, poverty, food shortages, unemployment, water-borne diseases, debt \u2013 the list of consequences, both long-term and short-term, began to become more terrifyingly clear even as the swollen waters of the Indus river finally spilled out into the ocean in mid-September, having obliterated thousands of villages and towns.The scale of the disaster was \u2013 even in comparison with the tsunamis and earthquakes and hurricanes of the last few years \u2013 unprecedented. What was needed in response was an unprecedented humanitarian effort by the world community. Various theories were thrown around about why this response was not forthcoming \u2013 in addition to the now familiar \"donor fatigue\", there was the added element, particular to Pakistan, of \"image deficit\" (a phrase that encompassed both a lack of sympathy for the Pakistanis who were suffering, and lack of trust that anyone in Pakistan's government would correctly allocate humanitarian donations \u2013 never mind that those donations could go directly to the world's most reputed aid agencies).Despite pleas and promises, to date the UN flood appeal is only 50% funded. In the late summer there was a flurry of donations, but those have slowed dramatically now that the story has left the news headlines (the flood waters have not, of course, evaporated from the submerged lands with the same speed). Relief agencies are struggling to deal with the shortfall, which is adding further stress to a situation already made unmanageable by its sheer scale. With winter settling in, the situation of the millions who are still homeless is becoming even more desperate. In a video for Oxfam a few weeks ago a woman who had lost her home to the floods stated it simply: \"We are under the sky in this cold and our children are in a miserable condition.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "Flooding", "Deforestation"], "title": "What happened next? Pakistan floods"},{"date": "2010-12-25T21:57:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A female suicide bomber killed at least 45 people today at a food distribution centre near Pakistan's border with Afghanistan, Pakistani officials said.The attack, believed to be the first suicide bombing by a woman in Pakistan, took place in Bajur, a tribal region where the military has twice declared victory over Taliban and al-Qaida insurgents.It came a day after some 150 militants killed 11 soldiers in a co-ordinated assault in a neighbouring region where the army has also been tackling insurgents.The woman wearing a burqa lobbed two hand grenades into the crowd waiting at a checkpoint outside the food aid distribution centre in the town of Khar before detonating her explosives vest, according to local police official Fazal-e-Rabbi Khan.He said the victims were gathering to collect food tokens distributed by the World Food Programme and other agencies to people displaced by an army offensive against Taliban militants in the region in early 2009.Local government official Tariq Khan said the blast also wounded more than 100 people, some of them critically. He, and another local official, Sohail Khan, said an examination of the human remains had confirmed the bomber was a woman.Male suicide bombers often don the burqa as a disguise. In 2007, officials initially claimed Pakistan's first female suicide bomber had killed 14 people in the north-west town of Bannu but the attacker was later identified as a man.Hasan Askari Rizvi, a Lahore-based security and political analyst, said today's suicide bombing appeared to be the first carried out by a woman in Pakistan.\"It is no surprise. They can use a woman, a child or whatever,\" he said. \"Human life is not important to them, only the objective they are pursuing.\"Akbar Jan, 45, who sustained leg wounds in the bombing, said from his hospital bed that people were lining up for the ration coupons when there was a large explosion.\"We thought someone had fired a rocket,\" he told Associated Press. He said within seconds the ground was strewn with the wounded.\"I realised a little later that I myself have suffered wounds,\" he said. \"Everybody was crying. It was blood and human flesh everywhere.\"The prime minister, Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani, condemned those behind the bombing and said Pakistanis were \"united against them\".Bajur is on the northern tip of Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal belt, bordering Afghanistan. Along with other parts of the tribal regions it is of major concern to the US because it has been used as a safe havens for militants fighting Nato and US troops across the border in Afghanistan. The US has long pressured Pakistan to clear the tribal belt of the insurgents.The military first declared victory in Bajur after a six-month operation launched in late 2008. But the army was forced to launch a follow-up operation in late January this year and declared victory again about a month later. Still, violence has persisted in the region.The army also has taken steps to clear Mohmand, a tribal region next to Bajur that also has witnessed militant activity. But yesterday, around 150 insurgents attacked five security checkpoints in the Baizai area of Mohmand, killing at least 11 soldiers and wounding a dozen more in a show of their ongoing strength.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan suicide bomb kills scores"},{"date": "2010-10-05T15:16:46Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Escalating US cross-border military incursions into Pakistan suggest the Obama administration has lost patience with Islamabad's failure to stop militants using the tribal areas as launchpads for attacks on Nato forces in Afghanistan and safe havens for training foreign-born terrorists.As attacks involving American helicopter gunships and unmanned drones rise sharply, Washington's blunt message to Islamabad is: \"If you can't or won't take care of the problem, we will.\" Last week, interior minister Rehman Malik offered a blunt riposte: \"We will have to see whether we are allies or enemies.\"The new strategy is high-risk. Public fury at the incursions, which caused the closure of a key Khyber Pass supply route, may further undermine Pakistan's civilian president, Asif Ali Zardari. It could alienate the Pakistani security apparatus and fuel jihadi recruitment. It is an embarrassment for Nato's allies, who have no control over US special forces or CIA operations. And it resurrects the dread prospect of a wider, regional war spreading outwards from Afghanistan.But Barack Obama, egged on by his new Afghanistan commander, General David Petraeus, and under pressure to meet his self-imposed withdrawal schedule, appears determined to take the fight to the enemy \u2013 even if it means waging war inside another sovereign state.Last month saw 22 cross-border CIA drone attacks on Taliban or al-Qaida-linked militants, nearly double the previous monthly record, and three reported helicopter raids. One helicopter attack last Thursday killed three Pakistani soldiers. On Monday, eight supposed terrorists of German nationality were killed.Obama's policy is rooted in an executive order signed by George Bush in July 2008 sanctioning secret cross-border counter-terrorist operations. In September that year US commandos launched a ground raid into Pakistan. The ensuing uproar meant that future ground operations mostly stopped. But aerial attacks using Predator and Reaper drones have steadily increased.Anthony Cordesman, writing in the National Interest, said there were 35 drone attacks in 2008, 55 in 2009, and 77 in the first nine months of 2010, according to information collated by Long War Journal. But it was wrong to present the rise as a \"massive bombing campaign\" causing numerous civilian casualties, he said.\"This rise in strike numbers is a kind of 'surge' but it adds up to 175 strikes over the entire [Afghan] war, and of these strikes, 65% have been concentrated in North Waziristan, [in the tribal areas] where the Pakistani army has been unwilling or unable to act.\" Cordesman also said improved rules of engagement had reduced civilian casualties.US reports say all but three of last month's cross-border operations were aimed at the Haqqani terrorist network in North Waziristan, which Nato blames for an upsurge in violence in adjacent east Afghanistan. Jalaluddin Haqqani, the network's leader, has close links to Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency. The ISI supposedly hopes to use the network to manipulate events in Afghanistan after the US withdrawal \u2013 and is thus reluctant to act against it.American officials say North Waziristan is also used by al-Qaida as a base for organising and planning terrorist operations overseas, such as the recently reported plots targeting Britain, France and Germany.American concerns intensified last spring when it emerged that the failed Times Square bomber in New York had trained in Pakistan. Intelligence agencies say European-born would-be jihadis, frequently of Pakistani, Afghan or North African descent, receive training in the tribal areas. This is the context of Monday's attack on the German nationals.Obama raised these issues in a letter to Zardari last November, warning that the US would be forced to act if Pakistan did not. The army made no move \u2013 and US patience finally snapped. \"The CIA sought more resources, which the White House strongly supported \u2026 The results speak for themselves,\" an unnamed official told the Washington Post.The expansion of US operations inside Pakistan appears to break even an informal, officially disavowed agreement concerning so-called \"flight boxes\", which sets limits on the area of drone operations. But in its mania for killing real or imagined terrorists, anywhere and everywhere, Washington does not seem to care.Nor do Pakistan's protests or worries about provoking a wider war cut much ice. \"Fighting a war in Afghanistan that has given the enemy a sanctuary in Pakistan, and al-Qaida immunity in Pakistan, has little point,\" Cordesman said, indirectly answering Rehman Malik's question about allies or enemies. \"More bluntly, if Pakistan cannot provide at least enough co-operation to passively allow such strikes, it is not an ally, it is a major strategic liability.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Warzone Pakistan | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-11-25T08:15:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The bullet-ridden body of journalist Lala Hameed Baloch, who disappeared last month in the Pakistan province of Balochistan, has been found with a note saying: \"Eid present for the Baloch people.\"Hameed, a reporter and photographer for daily titles Karachi and Tawar, was also president of the Baloch national movement, a political organisation pressing for an autonomous Balochistan. Local journalists believe his critical reporting about the Pakistani authorities and his support for the movement were the motive for his abduction and murder. They claim Pakistan's security officials were involved in his murder.Two other journalists were killed in Balochistan's capital, Quetta, earlier this year.Source: IFEX", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom"], "title": "Journalist murdered in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-12-27T14:00:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani banker told his story nervously, kneading his hands as he spoke. His wife had deserted him, his family was furious, and his career had stalled. \"My problem is whisky,\" he said, shaking his head with regret.The 32-year-old professional was sitting in an addiction clinic, hidden down a quiet street in the capital, Islamabad. He had relapsed from the expensive treatment programme twice already; now he had been dry for more than three months. \"This time it's for good,\" he said, with just a glimmer of self-doubt.Pakistan has been dry for much longer \u2013 since 1977 \u2013 and drinkers risk severe punishment: 80 lashes of the whip under strict Islamic laws. But the law is ignored, alcohol is widely available and, for those who go too far, addiction clinics offering help are quietly flourishing.\"There's plenty of business,\" said Dr Sadaqat Ali, a leading addiction counsellor whose chain of clinics treated 500 alcoholics this year. Dr Ali estimates that 10 million Pakistanis drink alcohol, 1 million of whom have a problem. \"With our culture of hospitality, it's hard to say 'no',\" he said.Earlier this month cricket authorities mounted an investigation into claims that a national player, Mohammad Sami, was involved in a drunken brawl in a Rawalpindi hotel. The 29-year-old test bowler denied he had been drinking, calling the row a \"misunderstanding\".Demand for alcoholism counselling is so brisk that many clinics now take out prominent newspaper ads, some depicting a depressed man nursing a glass of scotch \u2013 a rare public nod towards a thinly veiled drinking culture.Waiters serve scotch on the sidelines of society weddings and corporate functions; ministers drink openly at functions but hide their glasses when photographers come round. Bootleggers offer home delivery, so that ordering a bottle of booze is as easy as calling for a pizza, and likely to arrive more quickly.The last time a Pakistani drinker received 80 lashes was under the Islamist dictator Zia ul-Haq in the 1980s; these days the culture has changed. Former president Pervez Musharraf made little secret of his fondness for a drink; neither does his successor, Asif Ali Zardari.The less well-off drink homemade hooch, which can have a nasty kick: three years ago 50 Karachi residents died, and more went blind, from a bad batch of moonshine. But for the rich, the risk is in drinking too much of the good stuff. Dr Ali has counted bureaucrats, politicians, army generals and even the families of mullahs among his clients. \"That's our target market. We call it the golden triangle: rich, educated and influential,\"\u00a0he said.Treatment is expensive by local standards, typically costing upwards of \u00a385 a night. It's not quite the Betty Ford clinic: clients stay in a modest room and are forced to engage in intense counselling involving their own relatives. Controversially, some clinics have engaged in \"forceful\" interventions, drugging alcoholics at the instigation of desperate relatives to kickstart the cure.The other option is Alcoholics Anonymous, which has at least one group in Karachi. Unlike the clinics it is hard to find: no ads, no phone numbers, just a simple web page. \"Most people find it through word of mouth,\" said a former member, adding that it has operated for more than 15 years.Some years ago a handful of parliamentarians argued for a reversal of the alcohol law, but with the rise of the Taliban such talk has receded: in 2007 a suicide bomber set off his device outside a beer shop in the Islamabad Marriott Hotel.Alcoholics seeking help require discretion. But in Pakistan's small middle class, that can be tricky. The former AA member recognised several other members at the meeting: \"It should be called A, not AA, in Pakistan \u2013 because there's not much anonymity.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Alcoholism"], "title": "Alcoholism booms in 'dry' Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-12-27T08:00:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With three million people affected by the floods in Pakistan during the first week of August, it was hard to imagine what pundits and experts meant when they said the disaster was only in its initial stages. Over the next month, as the flood waters moved down the length (and to some extent, along the breadth) of the country, the unimaginable unfolded. Twenty-one million people were made homeless, one-fifth of the nation was submerged, an estimated 17 million acres of the most fertile arable land was destroyed \u2013 this in a poor country with an agrarian-based economy. Homelessness, poverty, food shortages, unemployment, water-borne diseases, debt \u2013 the list of consequences, both long-term and short-term, began to become more terrifyingly clear even as the swollen waters of the Indus river finally spilled out into the ocean in mid-September, having obliterated thousands of villages and towns.The scale of the disaster was \u2013 even in comparison with the tsunamis and earthquakes and hurricanes of the last few years \u2013 unprecedented. What was needed in response was an unprecedented humanitarian effort by the world community. Various theories were thrown around about why this response was not forthcoming \u2013 in addition to the now familiar \"donor fatigue\", there was the added element, particular to Pakistan, of \"image deficit\" (a phrase that encompassed both a lack of sympathy for the Pakistanis who were suffering, and lack of trust that anyone in Pakistan's government would correctly allocate humanitarian donations \u2013 never mind that those donations could go directly to the world's most reputed aid agencies).Despite pleas and promises, to date the UN flood appeal is only 50% funded. In the late summer there was a flurry of donations, but those have slowed dramatically now that the story has left the news headlines (the flood waters have not, of course, evaporated from the submerged lands with the same speed). Relief agencies are struggling to deal with the shortfall, which is adding further stress to a situation already made unmanageable by its sheer scale. With winter settling in, the situation of the millions who are still homeless is becoming even more desperate. In a video for Oxfam a few weeks ago a woman who had lost her home to the floods stated it simply: \"We are under the sky in this cold and our children are in a miserable condition.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "Flooding", "Deforestation"], "title": "What happened next? Pakistan floods"},{"date": "2010-12-25T21:57:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A female suicide bomber killed at least 45 people today at a food distribution centre near Pakistan's border with Afghanistan, Pakistani officials said.The attack, believed to be the first suicide bombing by a woman in Pakistan, took place in Bajur, a tribal region where the military has twice declared victory over Taliban and al-Qaida insurgents.It came a day after some 150 militants killed 11 soldiers in a co-ordinated assault in a neighbouring region where the army has also been tackling insurgents.The woman wearing a burqa lobbed two hand grenades into the crowd waiting at a checkpoint outside the food aid distribution centre in the town of Khar before detonating her explosives vest, according to local police official Fazal-e-Rabbi Khan.He said the victims were gathering to collect food tokens distributed by the World Food Programme and other agencies to people displaced by an army offensive against Taliban militants in the region in early 2009.Local government official Tariq Khan said the blast also wounded more than 100 people, some of them critically. He, and another local official, Sohail Khan, said an examination of the human remains had confirmed the bomber was a woman.Male suicide bombers often don the burqa as a disguise. In 2007, officials initially claimed Pakistan's first female suicide bomber had killed 14 people in the north-west town of Bannu but the attacker was later identified as a man.Hasan Askari Rizvi, a Lahore-based security and political analyst, said today's suicide bombing appeared to be the first carried out by a woman in Pakistan.\"It is no surprise. They can use a woman, a child or whatever,\" he said. \"Human life is not important to them, only the objective they are pursuing.\"Akbar Jan, 45, who sustained leg wounds in the bombing, said from his hospital bed that people were lining up for the ration coupons when there was a large explosion.\"We thought someone had fired a rocket,\" he told Associated Press. He said within seconds the ground was strewn with the wounded.\"I realised a little later that I myself have suffered wounds,\" he said. \"Everybody was crying. It was blood and human flesh everywhere.\"The prime minister, Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani, condemned those behind the bombing and said Pakistanis were \"united against them\".Bajur is on the northern tip of Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal belt, bordering Afghanistan. Along with other parts of the tribal regions it is of major concern to the US because it has been used as a safe havens for militants fighting Nato and US troops across the border in Afghanistan. The US has long pressured Pakistan to clear the tribal belt of the insurgents.The military first declared victory in Bajur after a six-month operation launched in late 2008. But the army was forced to launch a follow-up operation in late January this year and declared victory again about a month later. Still, violence has persisted in the region.The army also has taken steps to clear Mohmand, a tribal region next to Bajur that also has witnessed militant activity. But yesterday, around 150 insurgents attacked five security checkpoints in the Baizai area of Mohmand, killing at least 11 soldiers and wounding a dozen more in a show of their ongoing strength.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan suicide bomb kills scores"},{"date": "2010-10-16T09:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Recalling the last 63 years of Pakistan's history, democracy is found only as an interval before the arrival of the next military regime. Democracy was doomed when Liaquat Ali Khan, the first elected prime minister, was shot at a public gathering.From there onwards, the balance of power shifted in the favour of the military. An interesting comparison reveals this shift: from 1951 to 1957 India had one prime minister and several army chiefs while during the same period Pakistan had one army chief and several prime ministers.From Ayub Khan to Pervez Musharraf, military rule ruined the state structure of Pakistan as a whole, with only the elite benefiting from the system and no benefit being passed to the general public. Military policies have given the country cross-border and internal terrorism, millions of internally displaced people and a bankrupt national economy. Ironically we are always ready to welcome them again.Although every person in Pakistan, whether in a position of power or not, is very vocal about the very idea of democracy, no collective effort is seen to establish it as an institution. As the political and government culture in Pakistan is a product of its links to the pre-partition British rule, Pakistan's leaders knew best from this inheritance the vice-regal system that made little or no provision for popular awareness or involvement. Consequently, even after more than half a century of the country's independence, we are still entangled in age-old feudal, tribal and panchayat systems.Feudalism is one of the key factors responsible for the weakness of the democratic politics in Pakistan and the supremacy of the bureaucracy. The landed aristocracy has always dominated Pakistan's political, social and economic life. If you look at history it very clearly shows how land reforms introduced in 1953 played a key role in creating a democratic Indian state. On the contrary no such reforms were ever introduced in Pakistan \u2013 for which reason the poor masses remain under the control of feudalism. Given the fact that feudalism is prevalent in the rural areas, no investment is allowed in these areas.During the modest time in which democracy has been experimented with in Pakistan, uneducated, unqualified and incapable candidates, from the feudal class \u2013 totally incapable of dealing with multifarious problems faced by the country \u2013 are elected merely on the basis of their birth in a particular family, caste or place. Political parties voted into power for the purpose of institutionalising democracy blow their own trumpet and that, too, only for their own personal advantages. This, in turn, has marred Pakistani politics with an orgy of corruption, incompetence, spiralling economic decline and chaos.The failure of Pakistan's democratic rulers is evident from the fact that no agrarian reforms have ever been introduced to abolish feudalism. National oppression continues as a festering wound on the body politic of this country. The task of the formation of a modern nation-state is far from being achieved. Issues of electricity shortfall, floods and terrorist activities every now and then have only made things worse.This state of affairs has wrought havoc on the social and economic life of Pakistani society. Even the present theory of \"reconciliation\" initiated by imperialism is the most blatant and insidious form of class collaboration and is in no manner serving the purpose.The very fabric of democracy that could have been the driving force behind this country becoming one of the most powerful and well-respected countries in the world is now being unravelled before our eyes and we prefer being silent spectators. Alienation and disengagement from politics has already led Pakistan to its lowest ebb of catastrophe and ignominy. It is beyond comprehension why we fail to understand the need of active citizenry, especially from the bourgeoisie, exercising accountability or an effective method of recalling elected representatives if they do not perform.Today, democracy is more seen as a peaceful way of tyranny and suppression; a reductionist version of justice, a fallacious idea of the rule of law and a deceptive concept of equality before law. Those who once comforted themselves that a democratic government would never let all this happen might now abandon a last delusion, that their freedom is inviolable. From liberty to equality, fraternity to sovereignty, an independent judiciary to the rights of the people, all are denied and demonised by the defective democratic system.Opportunities for a fair governance, true democracy and civil society in Pakistan can only flourish when democratic practices are allowed to prevail in form and substance under the supremacy of an unchanged constitution. The repeated alterations in the constitution to suit existing rulers leave no positive memory and little chance for institutions to adapt and support values at the root of democracy.Robert Hutchins rightly said: \"The death of democracy is not likely to be an assassination from ambush. It will be a slow extinction from apathy, indifference, and undernourishment.\" With no moves expected in the right direction any time soon, democracy is, if not already dead, dying in Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan \u2013 the dying democracy | Bilal Hussain"},{"date": "2010-10-05T15:16:46Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Escalating US cross-border military incursions into Pakistan suggest the Obama administration has lost patience with Islamabad's failure to stop militants using the tribal areas as launchpads for attacks on Nato forces in Afghanistan and safe havens for training foreign-born terrorists.As attacks involving American helicopter gunships and unmanned drones rise sharply, Washington's blunt message to Islamabad is: \"If you can't or won't take care of the problem, we will.\" Last week, interior minister Rehman Malik offered a blunt riposte: \"We will have to see whether we are allies or enemies.\"The new strategy is high-risk. Public fury at the incursions, which caused the closure of a key Khyber Pass supply route, may further undermine Pakistan's civilian president, Asif Ali Zardari. It could alienate the Pakistani security apparatus and fuel jihadi recruitment. It is an embarrassment for Nato's allies, who have no control over US special forces or CIA operations. And it resurrects the dread prospect of a wider, regional war spreading outwards from Afghanistan.But Barack Obama, egged on by his new Afghanistan commander, General David Petraeus, and under pressure to meet his self-imposed withdrawal schedule, appears determined to take the fight to the enemy \u2013 even if it means waging war inside another sovereign state.Last month saw 22 cross-border CIA drone attacks on Taliban or al-Qaida-linked militants, nearly double the previous monthly record, and three reported helicopter raids. One helicopter attack last Thursday killed three Pakistani soldiers. On Monday, eight supposed terrorists of German nationality were killed.Obama's policy is rooted in an executive order signed by George Bush in July 2008 sanctioning secret cross-border counter-terrorist operations. In September that year US commandos launched a ground raid into Pakistan. The ensuing uproar meant that future ground operations mostly stopped. But aerial attacks using Predator and Reaper drones have steadily increased.Anthony Cordesman, writing in the National Interest, said there were 35 drone attacks in 2008, 55 in 2009, and 77 in the first nine months of 2010, according to information collated by Long War Journal. But it was wrong to present the rise as a \"massive bombing campaign\" causing numerous civilian casualties, he said.\"This rise in strike numbers is a kind of 'surge' but it adds up to 175 strikes over the entire [Afghan] war, and of these strikes, 65% have been concentrated in North Waziristan, [in the tribal areas] where the Pakistani army has been unwilling or unable to act.\" Cordesman also said improved rules of engagement had reduced civilian casualties.US reports say all but three of last month's cross-border operations were aimed at the Haqqani terrorist network in North Waziristan, which Nato blames for an upsurge in violence in adjacent east Afghanistan. Jalaluddin Haqqani, the network's leader, has close links to Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency. The ISI supposedly hopes to use the network to manipulate events in Afghanistan after the US withdrawal \u2013 and is thus reluctant to act against it.American officials say North Waziristan is also used by al-Qaida as a base for organising and planning terrorist operations overseas, such as the recently reported plots targeting Britain, France and Germany.American concerns intensified last spring when it emerged that the failed Times Square bomber in New York had trained in Pakistan. Intelligence agencies say European-born would-be jihadis, frequently of Pakistani, Afghan or North African descent, receive training in the tribal areas. This is the context of Monday's attack on the German nationals.Obama raised these issues in a letter to Zardari last November, warning that the US would be forced to act if Pakistan did not. The army made no move \u2013 and US patience finally snapped. \"The CIA sought more resources, which the White House strongly supported \u2026 The results speak for themselves,\" an unnamed official told the Washington Post.The expansion of US operations inside Pakistan appears to break even an informal, officially disavowed agreement concerning so-called \"flight boxes\", which sets limits on the area of drone operations. But in its mania for killing real or imagined terrorists, anywhere and everywhere, Washington does not seem to care.Nor do Pakistan's protests or worries about provoking a wider war cut much ice. \"Fighting a war in Afghanistan that has given the enemy a sanctuary in Pakistan, and al-Qaida immunity in Pakistan, has little point,\" Cordesman said, indirectly answering Rehman Malik's question about allies or enemies. \"More bluntly, if Pakistan cannot provide at least enough co-operation to passively allow such strikes, it is not an ally, it is a major strategic liability.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Warzone Pakistan | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-11-25T08:15:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The bullet-ridden body of journalist Lala Hameed Baloch, who disappeared last month in the Pakistan province of Balochistan, has been found with a note saying: \"Eid present for the Baloch people.\"Hameed, a reporter and photographer for daily titles Karachi and Tawar, was also president of the Baloch national movement, a political organisation pressing for an autonomous Balochistan. Local journalists believe his critical reporting about the Pakistani authorities and his support for the movement were the motive for his abduction and murder. They claim Pakistan's security officials were involved in his murder.Two other journalists were killed in Balochistan's capital, Quetta, earlier this year.Source: IFEX", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom"], "title": "Journalist murdered in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-12-27T14:00:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani banker told his story nervously, kneading his hands as he spoke. His wife had deserted him, his family was furious, and his career had stalled. \"My problem is whisky,\" he said, shaking his head with regret.The 32-year-old professional was sitting in an addiction clinic, hidden down a quiet street in the capital, Islamabad. He had relapsed from the expensive treatment programme twice already; now he had been dry for more than three months. \"This time it's for good,\" he said, with just a glimmer of self-doubt.Pakistan has been dry for much longer \u2013 since 1977 \u2013 and drinkers risk severe punishment: 80 lashes of the whip under strict Islamic laws. But the law is ignored, alcohol is widely available and, for those who go too far, addiction clinics offering help are quietly flourishing.\"There's plenty of business,\" said Dr Sadaqat Ali, a leading addiction counsellor whose chain of clinics treated 500 alcoholics this year. Dr Ali estimates that 10 million Pakistanis drink alcohol, 1 million of whom have a problem. \"With our culture of hospitality, it's hard to say 'no',\" he said.Earlier this month cricket authorities mounted an investigation into claims that a national player, Mohammad Sami, was involved in a drunken brawl in a Rawalpindi hotel. The 29-year-old test bowler denied he had been drinking, calling the row a \"misunderstanding\".Demand for alcoholism counselling is so brisk that many clinics now take out prominent newspaper ads, some depicting a depressed man nursing a glass of scotch \u2013 a rare public nod towards a thinly veiled drinking culture.Waiters serve scotch on the sidelines of society weddings and corporate functions; ministers drink openly at functions but hide their glasses when photographers come round. Bootleggers offer home delivery, so that ordering a bottle of booze is as easy as calling for a pizza, and likely to arrive more quickly.The last time a Pakistani drinker received 80 lashes was under the Islamist dictator Zia ul-Haq in the 1980s; these days the culture has changed. Former president Pervez Musharraf made little secret of his fondness for a drink; neither does his successor, Asif Ali Zardari.The less well-off drink homemade hooch, which can have a nasty kick: three years ago 50 Karachi residents died, and more went blind, from a bad batch of moonshine. But for the rich, the risk is in drinking too much of the good stuff. Dr Ali has counted bureaucrats, politicians, army generals and even the families of mullahs among his clients. \"That's our target market. We call it the golden triangle: rich, educated and influential,\"\u00a0he said.Treatment is expensive by local standards, typically costing upwards of \u00a385 a night. It's not quite the Betty Ford clinic: clients stay in a modest room and are forced to engage in intense counselling involving their own relatives. Controversially, some clinics have engaged in \"forceful\" interventions, drugging alcoholics at the instigation of desperate relatives to kickstart the cure.The other option is Alcoholics Anonymous, which has at least one group in Karachi. Unlike the clinics it is hard to find: no ads, no phone numbers, just a simple web page. \"Most people find it through word of mouth,\" said a former member, adding that it has operated for more than 15 years.Some years ago a handful of parliamentarians argued for a reversal of the alcohol law, but with the rise of the Taliban such talk has receded: in 2007 a suicide bomber set off his device outside a beer shop in the Islamabad Marriott Hotel.Alcoholics seeking help require discretion. But in Pakistan's small middle class, that can be tricky. The former AA member recognised several other members at the meeting: \"It should be called A, not AA, in Pakistan \u2013 because there's not much anonymity.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Alcoholism"], "title": "Alcoholism booms in 'dry' Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-12-27T08:00:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With three million people affected by the floods in Pakistan during the first week of August, it was hard to imagine what pundits and experts meant when they said the disaster was only in its initial stages. Over the next month, as the flood waters moved down the length (and to some extent, along the breadth) of the country, the unimaginable unfolded. Twenty-one million people were made homeless, one-fifth of the nation was submerged, an estimated 17 million acres of the most fertile arable land was destroyed \u2013 this in a poor country with an agrarian-based economy. Homelessness, poverty, food shortages, unemployment, water-borne diseases, debt \u2013 the list of consequences, both long-term and short-term, began to become more terrifyingly clear even as the swollen waters of the Indus river finally spilled out into the ocean in mid-September, having obliterated thousands of villages and towns.The scale of the disaster was \u2013 even in comparison with the tsunamis and earthquakes and hurricanes of the last few years \u2013 unprecedented. What was needed in response was an unprecedented humanitarian effort by the world community. Various theories were thrown around about why this response was not forthcoming \u2013 in addition to the now familiar \"donor fatigue\", there was the added element, particular to Pakistan, of \"image deficit\" (a phrase that encompassed both a lack of sympathy for the Pakistanis who were suffering, and lack of trust that anyone in Pakistan's government would correctly allocate humanitarian donations \u2013 never mind that those donations could go directly to the world's most reputed aid agencies).Despite pleas and promises, to date the UN flood appeal is only 50% funded. In the late summer there was a flurry of donations, but those have slowed dramatically now that the story has left the news headlines (the flood waters have not, of course, evaporated from the submerged lands with the same speed). Relief agencies are struggling to deal with the shortfall, which is adding further stress to a situation already made unmanageable by its sheer scale. With winter settling in, the situation of the millions who are still homeless is becoming even more desperate. In a video for Oxfam a few weeks ago a woman who had lost her home to the floods stated it simply: \"We are under the sky in this cold and our children are in a miserable condition.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "Flooding", "Deforestation"], "title": "What happened next? Pakistan floods"},{"date": "2010-12-25T21:57:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A female suicide bomber killed at least 45 people today at a food distribution centre near Pakistan's border with Afghanistan, Pakistani officials said.The attack, believed to be the first suicide bombing by a woman in Pakistan, took place in Bajur, a tribal region where the military has twice declared victory over Taliban and al-Qaida insurgents.It came a day after some 150 militants killed 11 soldiers in a co-ordinated assault in a neighbouring region where the army has also been tackling insurgents.The woman wearing a burqa lobbed two hand grenades into the crowd waiting at a checkpoint outside the food aid distribution centre in the town of Khar before detonating her explosives vest, according to local police official Fazal-e-Rabbi Khan.He said the victims were gathering to collect food tokens distributed by the World Food Programme and other agencies to people displaced by an army offensive against Taliban militants in the region in early 2009.Local government official Tariq Khan said the blast also wounded more than 100 people, some of them critically. He, and another local official, Sohail Khan, said an examination of the human remains had confirmed the bomber was a woman.Male suicide bombers often don the burqa as a disguise. In 2007, officials initially claimed Pakistan's first female suicide bomber had killed 14 people in the north-west town of Bannu but the attacker was later identified as a man.Hasan Askari Rizvi, a Lahore-based security and political analyst, said today's suicide bombing appeared to be the first carried out by a woman in Pakistan.\"It is no surprise. They can use a woman, a child or whatever,\" he said. \"Human life is not important to them, only the objective they are pursuing.\"Akbar Jan, 45, who sustained leg wounds in the bombing, said from his hospital bed that people were lining up for the ration coupons when there was a large explosion.\"We thought someone had fired a rocket,\" he told Associated Press. He said within seconds the ground was strewn with the wounded.\"I realised a little later that I myself have suffered wounds,\" he said. \"Everybody was crying. It was blood and human flesh everywhere.\"The prime minister, Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani, condemned those behind the bombing and said Pakistanis were \"united against them\".Bajur is on the northern tip of Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal belt, bordering Afghanistan. Along with other parts of the tribal regions it is of major concern to the US because it has been used as a safe havens for militants fighting Nato and US troops across the border in Afghanistan. The US has long pressured Pakistan to clear the tribal belt of the insurgents.The military first declared victory in Bajur after a six-month operation launched in late 2008. But the army was forced to launch a follow-up operation in late January this year and declared victory again about a month later. Still, violence has persisted in the region.The army also has taken steps to clear Mohmand, a tribal region next to Bajur that also has witnessed militant activity. But yesterday, around 150 insurgents attacked five security checkpoints in the Baizai area of Mohmand, killing at least 11 soldiers and wounding a dozen more in a show of their ongoing strength.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan suicide bomb kills scores"},{"date": "2010-10-16T09:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Recalling the last 63 years of Pakistan's history, democracy is found only as an interval before the arrival of the next military regime. Democracy was doomed when Liaquat Ali Khan, the first elected prime minister, was shot at a public gathering.From there onwards, the balance of power shifted in the favour of the military. An interesting comparison reveals this shift: from 1951 to 1957 India had one prime minister and several army chiefs while during the same period Pakistan had one army chief and several prime ministers.From Ayub Khan to Pervez Musharraf, military rule ruined the state structure of Pakistan as a whole, with only the elite benefiting from the system and no benefit being passed to the general public. Military policies have given the country cross-border and internal terrorism, millions of internally displaced people and a bankrupt national economy. Ironically we are always ready to welcome them again.Although every person in Pakistan, whether in a position of power or not, is very vocal about the very idea of democracy, no collective effort is seen to establish it as an institution. As the political and government culture in Pakistan is a product of its links to the pre-partition British rule, Pakistan's leaders knew best from this inheritance the vice-regal system that made little or no provision for popular awareness or involvement. Consequently, even after more than half a century of the country's independence, we are still entangled in age-old feudal, tribal and panchayat systems.Feudalism is one of the key factors responsible for the weakness of the democratic politics in Pakistan and the supremacy of the bureaucracy. The landed aristocracy has always dominated Pakistan's political, social and economic life. If you look at history it very clearly shows how land reforms introduced in 1953 played a key role in creating a democratic Indian state. On the contrary no such reforms were ever introduced in Pakistan \u2013 for which reason the poor masses remain under the control of feudalism. Given the fact that feudalism is prevalent in the rural areas, no investment is allowed in these areas.During the modest time in which democracy has been experimented with in Pakistan, uneducated, unqualified and incapable candidates, from the feudal class \u2013 totally incapable of dealing with multifarious problems faced by the country \u2013 are elected merely on the basis of their birth in a particular family, caste or place. Political parties voted into power for the purpose of institutionalising democracy blow their own trumpet and that, too, only for their own personal advantages. This, in turn, has marred Pakistani politics with an orgy of corruption, incompetence, spiralling economic decline and chaos.The failure of Pakistan's democratic rulers is evident from the fact that no agrarian reforms have ever been introduced to abolish feudalism. National oppression continues as a festering wound on the body politic of this country. The task of the formation of a modern nation-state is far from being achieved. Issues of electricity shortfall, floods and terrorist activities every now and then have only made things worse.This state of affairs has wrought havoc on the social and economic life of Pakistani society. Even the present theory of \"reconciliation\" initiated by imperialism is the most blatant and insidious form of class collaboration and is in no manner serving the purpose.The very fabric of democracy that could have been the driving force behind this country becoming one of the most powerful and well-respected countries in the world is now being unravelled before our eyes and we prefer being silent spectators. Alienation and disengagement from politics has already led Pakistan to its lowest ebb of catastrophe and ignominy. It is beyond comprehension why we fail to understand the need of active citizenry, especially from the bourgeoisie, exercising accountability or an effective method of recalling elected representatives if they do not perform.Today, democracy is more seen as a peaceful way of tyranny and suppression; a reductionist version of justice, a fallacious idea of the rule of law and a deceptive concept of equality before law. Those who once comforted themselves that a democratic government would never let all this happen might now abandon a last delusion, that their freedom is inviolable. From liberty to equality, fraternity to sovereignty, an independent judiciary to the rights of the people, all are denied and demonised by the defective democratic system.Opportunities for a fair governance, true democracy and civil society in Pakistan can only flourish when democratic practices are allowed to prevail in form and substance under the supremacy of an unchanged constitution. The repeated alterations in the constitution to suit existing rulers leave no positive memory and little chance for institutions to adapt and support values at the root of democracy.Robert Hutchins rightly said: \"The death of democracy is not likely to be an assassination from ambush. It will be a slow extinction from apathy, indifference, and undernourishment.\" With no moves expected in the right direction any time soon, democracy is, if not already dead, dying in Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan \u2013 the dying democracy | Bilal Hussain"},{"date": "2010-12-01T00:05:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The US embassy cables shed a stark halogen light on the darkest corners of America's troubled relationship with Pakistan. The reader risks being overwhelmed by detail: that Pakistan's army chief General Ashfaq Kayani raised the possibility last year of pushing the unpopular president Asif Ali Zardari from power; that the US military toyed with the idea of bombing refugee camps and aid agencies on the border with Afghanistan; that the Saudis regarded themselves not as observers but as players in Pakistan; that hundreds of millions of dollars of US military aid continue to be diverted into government coffers.In the thousands of words devoted to the subject, one sentence written by the perceptive former ambassador Anne Patterson leaps off the screen. In it, she states that no amount of US money will change the view in Pakistan that India is the principal enemy. Pakistan cannot be bought. Although Washington had given the Pakistan army $9bn to fight the Taliban and al-Qaida in the tribal belt (and a month ago the White House announced an extra $2bn), there was, in Patterson's view, \"no chance\" that the Pakistan army could be persuaded to stop sponsoring four militant groups \u2013 including the one responsible for the Mumbai attack.Patterson's is not a casual remark. It goes to the heart of US strategy: the idea that if you cannot invade the country or fight on its territory, you can at least buy it off. Patterson holes this policy below the waterline, and she is right to do so. She concluded, before she left, that the only way to end Pakistan's covert support for the Taliban would be to change the Pakistan government's own perception of its security needs. Resolving the 63-year-old Kashmir conflict and reassessing Indian involvement in Afghanistan and the US's own policies towards India would all go some way to ending the perception that India is the mortal foe. New Delhi has resisted any attempt to link Afghanistan and Kashmir.Other home truths are revealed: that America and Pakistan are locked in a transactional relationship based on mutual distrust. Neither likes the other, but neither can afford to abandon the other either. The generals are so confident that the money from Washington will keep flowing that they are capable of delaying visas for US diplomats, blocking import permits for armoured vehicles, sabotaging a security contract and detaining embassy vehicles. It is not the only dysfunctional relationship. Gen Kayani \"disliked\" Zardari but \"distrusted\" the main opposition leader Nawaz Sharif even more. And it is on these brittle foundations that the central plank of the US fight against al-Qaida rests. It cannot have a good outcome.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "Pakistan"], "title": "US and Pakistan | Mutual distruct | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-10-05T15:16:46Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Escalating US cross-border military incursions into Pakistan suggest the Obama administration has lost patience with Islamabad's failure to stop militants using the tribal areas as launchpads for attacks on Nato forces in Afghanistan and safe havens for training foreign-born terrorists.As attacks involving American helicopter gunships and unmanned drones rise sharply, Washington's blunt message to Islamabad is: \"If you can't or won't take care of the problem, we will.\" Last week, interior minister Rehman Malik offered a blunt riposte: \"We will have to see whether we are allies or enemies.\"The new strategy is high-risk. Public fury at the incursions, which caused the closure of a key Khyber Pass supply route, may further undermine Pakistan's civilian president, Asif Ali Zardari. It could alienate the Pakistani security apparatus and fuel jihadi recruitment. It is an embarrassment for Nato's allies, who have no control over US special forces or CIA operations. And it resurrects the dread prospect of a wider, regional war spreading outwards from Afghanistan.But Barack Obama, egged on by his new Afghanistan commander, General David Petraeus, and under pressure to meet his self-imposed withdrawal schedule, appears determined to take the fight to the enemy \u2013 even if it means waging war inside another sovereign state.Last month saw 22 cross-border CIA drone attacks on Taliban or al-Qaida-linked militants, nearly double the previous monthly record, and three reported helicopter raids. One helicopter attack last Thursday killed three Pakistani soldiers. On Monday, eight supposed terrorists of German nationality were killed.Obama's policy is rooted in an executive order signed by George Bush in July 2008 sanctioning secret cross-border counter-terrorist operations. In September that year US commandos launched a ground raid into Pakistan. The ensuing uproar meant that future ground operations mostly stopped. But aerial attacks using Predator and Reaper drones have steadily increased.Anthony Cordesman, writing in the National Interest, said there were 35 drone attacks in 2008, 55 in 2009, and 77 in the first nine months of 2010, according to information collated by Long War Journal. But it was wrong to present the rise as a \"massive bombing campaign\" causing numerous civilian casualties, he said.\"This rise in strike numbers is a kind of 'surge' but it adds up to 175 strikes over the entire [Afghan] war, and of these strikes, 65% have been concentrated in North Waziristan, [in the tribal areas] where the Pakistani army has been unwilling or unable to act.\" Cordesman also said improved rules of engagement had reduced civilian casualties.US reports say all but three of last month's cross-border operations were aimed at the Haqqani terrorist network in North Waziristan, which Nato blames for an upsurge in violence in adjacent east Afghanistan. Jalaluddin Haqqani, the network's leader, has close links to Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency. The ISI supposedly hopes to use the network to manipulate events in Afghanistan after the US withdrawal \u2013 and is thus reluctant to act against it.American officials say North Waziristan is also used by al-Qaida as a base for organising and planning terrorist operations overseas, such as the recently reported plots targeting Britain, France and Germany.American concerns intensified last spring when it emerged that the failed Times Square bomber in New York had trained in Pakistan. Intelligence agencies say European-born would-be jihadis, frequently of Pakistani, Afghan or North African descent, receive training in the tribal areas. This is the context of Monday's attack on the German nationals.Obama raised these issues in a letter to Zardari last November, warning that the US would be forced to act if Pakistan did not. The army made no move \u2013 and US patience finally snapped. \"The CIA sought more resources, which the White House strongly supported \u2026 The results speak for themselves,\" an unnamed official told the Washington Post.The expansion of US operations inside Pakistan appears to break even an informal, officially disavowed agreement concerning so-called \"flight boxes\", which sets limits on the area of drone operations. But in its mania for killing real or imagined terrorists, anywhere and everywhere, Washington does not seem to care.Nor do Pakistan's protests or worries about provoking a wider war cut much ice. \"Fighting a war in Afghanistan that has given the enemy a sanctuary in Pakistan, and al-Qaida immunity in Pakistan, has little point,\" Cordesman said, indirectly answering Rehman Malik's question about allies or enemies. \"More bluntly, if Pakistan cannot provide at least enough co-operation to passively allow such strikes, it is not an ally, it is a major strategic liability.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Middle East and North Africa", "Taliban", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Warzone Pakistan | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-11-25T08:15:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The bullet-ridden body of journalist Lala Hameed Baloch, who disappeared last month in the Pakistan province of Balochistan, has been found with a note saying: \"Eid present for the Baloch people.\"Hameed, a reporter and photographer for daily titles Karachi and Tawar, was also president of the Baloch national movement, a political organisation pressing for an autonomous Balochistan. Local journalists believe his critical reporting about the Pakistani authorities and his support for the movement were the motive for his abduction and murder. They claim Pakistan's security officials were involved in his murder.Two other journalists were killed in Balochistan's capital, Quetta, earlier this year.Source: IFEX", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom"], "title": "Journalist murdered in Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-12-27T14:00:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani banker told his story nervously, kneading his hands as he spoke. His wife had deserted him, his family was furious, and his career had stalled. \"My problem is whisky,\" he said, shaking his head with regret.The 32-year-old professional was sitting in an addiction clinic, hidden down a quiet street in the capital, Islamabad. He had relapsed from the expensive treatment programme twice already; now he had been dry for more than three months. \"This time it's for good,\" he said, with just a glimmer of self-doubt.Pakistan has been dry for much longer \u2013 since 1977 \u2013 and drinkers risk severe punishment: 80 lashes of the whip under strict Islamic laws. But the law is ignored, alcohol is widely available and, for those who go too far, addiction clinics offering help are quietly flourishing.\"There's plenty of business,\" said Dr Sadaqat Ali, a leading addiction counsellor whose chain of clinics treated 500 alcoholics this year. Dr Ali estimates that 10 million Pakistanis drink alcohol, 1 million of whom have a problem. \"With our culture of hospitality, it's hard to say 'no',\" he said.Earlier this month cricket authorities mounted an investigation into claims that a national player, Mohammad Sami, was involved in a drunken brawl in a Rawalpindi hotel. The 29-year-old test bowler denied he had been drinking, calling the row a \"misunderstanding\".Demand for alcoholism counselling is so brisk that many clinics now take out prominent newspaper ads, some depicting a depressed man nursing a glass of scotch \u2013 a rare public nod towards a thinly veiled drinking culture.Waiters serve scotch on the sidelines of society weddings and corporate functions; ministers drink openly at functions but hide their glasses when photographers come round. Bootleggers offer home delivery, so that ordering a bottle of booze is as easy as calling for a pizza, and likely to arrive more quickly.The last time a Pakistani drinker received 80 lashes was under the Islamist dictator Zia ul-Haq in the 1980s; these days the culture has changed. Former president Pervez Musharraf made little secret of his fondness for a drink; neither does his successor, Asif Ali Zardari.The less well-off drink homemade hooch, which can have a nasty kick: three years ago 50 Karachi residents died, and more went blind, from a bad batch of moonshine. But for the rich, the risk is in drinking too much of the good stuff. Dr Ali has counted bureaucrats, politicians, army generals and even the families of mullahs among his clients. \"That's our target market. We call it the golden triangle: rich, educated and influential,\"\u00a0he said.Treatment is expensive by local standards, typically costing upwards of \u00a385 a night. It's not quite the Betty Ford clinic: clients stay in a modest room and are forced to engage in intense counselling involving their own relatives. Controversially, some clinics have engaged in \"forceful\" interventions, drugging alcoholics at the instigation of desperate relatives to kickstart the cure.The other option is Alcoholics Anonymous, which has at least one group in Karachi. Unlike the clinics it is hard to find: no ads, no phone numbers, just a simple web page. \"Most people find it through word of mouth,\" said a former member, adding that it has operated for more than 15 years.Some years ago a handful of parliamentarians argued for a reversal of the alcohol law, but with the rise of the Taliban such talk has receded: in 2007 a suicide bomber set off his device outside a beer shop in the Islamabad Marriott Hotel.Alcoholics seeking help require discretion. But in Pakistan's small middle class, that can be tricky. The former AA member recognised several other members at the meeting: \"It should be called A, not AA, in Pakistan \u2013 because there's not much anonymity.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Alcoholism"], "title": "Alcoholism booms in 'dry' Pakistan"},{"date": "2010-12-27T08:00:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With three million people affected by the floods in Pakistan during the first week of August, it was hard to imagine what pundits and experts meant when they said the disaster was only in its initial stages. Over the next month, as the flood waters moved down the length (and to some extent, along the breadth) of the country, the unimaginable unfolded. Twenty-one million people were made homeless, one-fifth of the nation was submerged, an estimated 17 million acres of the most fertile arable land was destroyed \u2013 this in a poor country with an agrarian-based economy. Homelessness, poverty, food shortages, unemployment, water-borne diseases, debt \u2013 the list of consequences, both long-term and short-term, began to become more terrifyingly clear even as the swollen waters of the Indus river finally spilled out into the ocean in mid-September, having obliterated thousands of villages and towns.The scale of the disaster was \u2013 even in comparison with the tsunamis and earthquakes and hurricanes of the last few years \u2013 unprecedented. What was needed in response was an unprecedented humanitarian effort by the world community. Various theories were thrown around about why this response was not forthcoming \u2013 in addition to the now familiar \"donor fatigue\", there was the added element, particular to Pakistan, of \"image deficit\" (a phrase that encompassed both a lack of sympathy for the Pakistanis who were suffering, and lack of trust that anyone in Pakistan's government would correctly allocate humanitarian donations \u2013 never mind that those donations could go directly to the world's most reputed aid agencies).Despite pleas and promises, to date the UN flood appeal is only 50% funded. In the late summer there was a flurry of donations, but those have slowed dramatically now that the story has left the news headlines (the flood waters have not, of course, evaporated from the submerged lands with the same speed). Relief agencies are struggling to deal with the shortfall, which is adding further stress to a situation already made unmanageable by its sheer scale. With winter settling in, the situation of the millions who are still homeless is becoming even more desperate. In a video for Oxfam a few weeks ago a woman who had lost her home to the floods stated it simply: \"We are under the sky in this cold and our children are in a miserable condition.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "Flooding", "Deforestation"], "title": "What happened next? Pakistan floods"},{"date": "2010-12-25T21:57:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A female suicide bomber killed at least 45 people today at a food distribution centre near Pakistan's border with Afghanistan, Pakistani officials said.The attack, believed to be the first suicide bombing by a woman in Pakistan, took place in Bajur, a tribal region where the military has twice declared victory over Taliban and al-Qaida insurgents.It came a day after some 150 militants killed 11 soldiers in a co-ordinated assault in a neighbouring region where the army has also been tackling insurgents.The woman wearing a burqa lobbed two hand grenades into the crowd waiting at a checkpoint outside the food aid distribution centre in the town of Khar before detonating her explosives vest, according to local police official Fazal-e-Rabbi Khan.He said the victims were gathering to collect food tokens distributed by the World Food Programme and other agencies to people displaced by an army offensive against Taliban militants in the region in early 2009.Local government official Tariq Khan said the blast also wounded more than 100 people, some of them critically. He, and another local official, Sohail Khan, said an examination of the human remains had confirmed the bomber was a woman.Male suicide bombers often don the burqa as a disguise. In 2007, officials initially claimed Pakistan's first female suicide bomber had killed 14 people in the north-west town of Bannu but the attacker was later identified as a man.Hasan Askari Rizvi, a Lahore-based security and political analyst, said today's suicide bombing appeared to be the first carried out by a woman in Pakistan.\"It is no surprise. They can use a woman, a child or whatever,\" he said. \"Human life is not important to them, only the objective they are pursuing.\"Akbar Jan, 45, who sustained leg wounds in the bombing, said from his hospital bed that people were lining up for the ration coupons when there was a large explosion.\"We thought someone had fired a rocket,\" he told Associated Press. He said within seconds the ground was strewn with the wounded.\"I realised a little later that I myself have suffered wounds,\" he said. \"Everybody was crying. It was blood and human flesh everywhere.\"The prime minister, Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani, condemned those behind the bombing and said Pakistanis were \"united against them\".Bajur is on the northern tip of Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal belt, bordering Afghanistan. Along with other parts of the tribal regions it is of major concern to the US because it has been used as a safe havens for militants fighting Nato and US troops across the border in Afghanistan. The US has long pressured Pakistan to clear the tribal belt of the insurgents.The military first declared victory in Bajur after a six-month operation launched in late 2008. But the army was forced to launch a follow-up operation in late January this year and declared victory again about a month later. Still, violence has persisted in the region.The army also has taken steps to clear Mohmand, a tribal region next to Bajur that also has witnessed militant activity. But yesterday, around 150 insurgents attacked five security checkpoints in the Baizai area of Mohmand, killing at least 11 soldiers and wounding a dozen more in a show of their ongoing strength.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan suicide bomb kills scores"},{"date": "2010-10-16T09:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Recalling the last 63 years of Pakistan's history, democracy is found only as an interval before the arrival of the next military regime. Democracy was doomed when Liaquat Ali Khan, the first elected prime minister, was shot at a public gathering.From there onwards, the balance of power shifted in the favour of the military. An interesting comparison reveals this shift: from 1951 to 1957 India had one prime minister and several army chiefs while during the same period Pakistan had one army chief and several prime ministers.From Ayub Khan to Pervez Musharraf, military rule ruined the state structure of Pakistan as a whole, with only the elite benefiting from the system and no benefit being passed to the general public. Military policies have given the country cross-border and internal terrorism, millions of internally displaced people and a bankrupt national economy. Ironically we are always ready to welcome them again.Although every person in Pakistan, whether in a position of power or not, is very vocal about the very idea of democracy, no collective effort is seen to establish it as an institution. As the political and government culture in Pakistan is a product of its links to the pre-partition British rule, Pakistan's leaders knew best from this inheritance the vice-regal system that made little or no provision for popular awareness or involvement. Consequently, even after more than half a century of the country's independence, we are still entangled in age-old feudal, tribal and panchayat systems.Feudalism is one of the key factors responsible for the weakness of the democratic politics in Pakistan and the supremacy of the bureaucracy. The landed aristocracy has always dominated Pakistan's political, social and economic life. If you look at history it very clearly shows how land reforms introduced in 1953 played a key role in creating a democratic Indian state. On the contrary no such reforms were ever introduced in Pakistan \u2013 for which reason the poor masses remain under the control of feudalism. Given the fact that feudalism is prevalent in the rural areas, no investment is allowed in these areas.During the modest time in which democracy has been experimented with in Pakistan, uneducated, unqualified and incapable candidates, from the feudal class \u2013 totally incapable of dealing with multifarious problems faced by the country \u2013 are elected merely on the basis of their birth in a particular family, caste or place. Political parties voted into power for the purpose of institutionalising democracy blow their own trumpet and that, too, only for their own personal advantages. This, in turn, has marred Pakistani politics with an orgy of corruption, incompetence, spiralling economic decline and chaos.The failure of Pakistan's democratic rulers is evident from the fact that no agrarian reforms have ever been introduced to abolish feudalism. National oppression continues as a festering wound on the body politic of this country. The task of the formation of a modern nation-state is far from being achieved. Issues of electricity shortfall, floods and terrorist activities every now and then have only made things worse.This state of affairs has wrought havoc on the social and economic life of Pakistani society. Even the present theory of \"reconciliation\" initiated by imperialism is the most blatant and insidious form of class collaboration and is in no manner serving the purpose.The very fabric of democracy that could have been the driving force behind this country becoming one of the most powerful and well-respected countries in the world is now being unravelled before our eyes and we prefer being silent spectators. Alienation and disengagement from politics has already led Pakistan to its lowest ebb of catastrophe and ignominy. It is beyond comprehension why we fail to understand the need of active citizenry, especially from the bourgeoisie, exercising accountability or an effective method of recalling elected representatives if they do not perform.Today, democracy is more seen as a peaceful way of tyranny and suppression; a reductionist version of justice, a fallacious idea of the rule of law and a deceptive concept of equality before law. Those who once comforted themselves that a democratic government would never let all this happen might now abandon a last delusion, that their freedom is inviolable. From liberty to equality, fraternity to sovereignty, an independent judiciary to the rights of the people, all are denied and demonised by the defective democratic system.Opportunities for a fair governance, true democracy and civil society in Pakistan can only flourish when democratic practices are allowed to prevail in form and substance under the supremacy of an unchanged constitution. The repeated alterations in the constitution to suit existing rulers leave no positive memory and little chance for institutions to adapt and support values at the root of democracy.Robert Hutchins rightly said: \"The death of democracy is not likely to be an assassination from ambush. It will be a slow extinction from apathy, indifference, and undernourishment.\" With no moves expected in the right direction any time soon, democracy is, if not already dead, dying in Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan \u2013 the dying democracy | Bilal Hussain"},{"date": "2010-12-01T00:05:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The US embassy cables shed a stark halogen light on the darkest corners of America's troubled relationship with Pakistan. The reader risks being overwhelmed by detail: that Pakistan's army chief General Ashfaq Kayani raised the possibility last year of pushing the unpopular president Asif Ali Zardari from power; that the US military toyed with the idea of bombing refugee camps and aid agencies on the border with Afghanistan; that the Saudis regarded themselves not as observers but as players in Pakistan; that hundreds of millions of dollars of US military aid continue to be diverted into government coffers.In the thousands of words devoted to the subject, one sentence written by the perceptive former ambassador Anne Patterson leaps off the screen. In it, she states that no amount of US money will change the view in Pakistan that India is the principal enemy. Pakistan cannot be bought. Although Washington had given the Pakistan army $9bn to fight the Taliban and al-Qaida in the tribal belt (and a month ago the White House announced an extra $2bn), there was, in Patterson's view, \"no chance\" that the Pakistan army could be persuaded to stop sponsoring four militant groups \u2013 including the one responsible for the Mumbai attack.Patterson's is not a casual remark. It goes to the heart of US strategy: the idea that if you cannot invade the country or fight on its territory, you can at least buy it off. Patterson holes this policy below the waterline, and she is right to do so. She concluded, before she left, that the only way to end Pakistan's covert support for the Taliban would be to change the Pakistan government's own perception of its security needs. Resolving the 63-year-old Kashmir conflict and reassessing Indian involvement in Afghanistan and the US's own policies towards India would all go some way to ending the perception that India is the mortal foe. New Delhi has resisted any attempt to link Afghanistan and Kashmir.Other home truths are revealed: that America and Pakistan are locked in a transactional relationship based on mutual distrust. Neither likes the other, but neither can afford to abandon the other either. The generals are so confident that the money from Washington will keep flowing that they are capable of delaying visas for US diplomats, blocking import permits for armoured vehicles, sabotaging a security contract and detaining embassy vehicles. It is not the only dysfunctional relationship. Gen Kayani \"disliked\" Zardari but \"distrusted\" the main opposition leader Nawaz Sharif even more. And it is on these brittle foundations that the central plank of the US fight against al-Qaida rests. It cannot have a good outcome.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "Pakistan"], "title": "US and Pakistan | Mutual distruct | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-11-11T23:26:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Heavily armed militants stormed a police headquarters in central Karachi today firing guns and exploding a bomb that killed at least 16 people.It was the biggest assault on a security target in Pakistan's largest city for several years, rocking a busy area packed with shops, five-star hotels and government buildings. A Taliban spokesman claimed responsibility.At least five gunmen attacked the police headquarters, triggering a firefight that lasted several minutes and ended with a car bomb explosion that was felt across the city of 18 million people.The blast destroyed the building, damaged houses and left a crater in the road that was 12 metres (40 feet) wide and three metres deep. The city centre ground to a halt as rescuers pulled bloodied corpses from the rubble and dazed, dust-covered survivors stumbled away.\"I heard shooting and then I came to the site and there were injured people screaming,\" bystander Sajid Khan told Reuters.The target was the Criminal Investigation Department, a police unit that investigates sectarian and militant crimes in Karachi.Hours before the blast, CID officers brought to court six members of Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, a Sunni sectarian outfit with links to al-Qaida and the Taliban.The agency is also investigating a Taliban suicide attack on a Sufi shrine last month in which eight people were killed. Its headquarters contains a detention facility for militant and criminal suspects.Claiming responsibility, Azam Tariq, a spokesman for Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, said the attack was in retaliation for US missile strikes in the north-western tribal belt. \"Such attacks will continue until drone strikes are stopped,\" he told Reuters.Karachi has been no stranger to violence this year, the bloodiest period in over a decade due to a spate of political killings, sectarian violence and militant attacks.More than 80 people died in a one-week spate of tit-for-tat killings last month that was triggered by a by-election.By one count, more people have died violently on Karachi streets this year than in Taliban suicide attacks across the country.At the CID headquarters rescuers worked late into the night, sifting through the rubble in search of survivors. Hospitals reported up to 100 injuries and the death toll was expected to rise. There was a widespread sense of trepidation that militant violence, in recent months largely confined to the north-western border regions, was again spilling into the rest of Pakistan.\"A Muslim cannot do such things. Killing humanity is not the teaching of Islam,\" said Abdul Sattar Edhi, one of Pakistan's most respected charity workers, at the site of the blast.On Twitter, the reaction ranged from despondency to anger at the US. Calls from Washington to \"do more\" have irked Pakistanis, who say their country is already paying a high price for fighting militancy.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Al-Qaida", "US foreign policy", "US news"], "title": "Powerful bomb explodes in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-03-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "One by one, those who stick their head above the parapet to demand changes in Pakistan's infamous blasphemy law are being gunned down. First Salmaan Taseer, the governor of Punjab, and now Shahbaz Bhatti, Islamabad's minister for minorities, himself a Christian. To say these men were liberals is to posit a false dichotomy. The people gunning them down are not conservatives. They are people who impose their authority by suicide bombings and murder. Their form of argument is terror, and the battle which should be fought against them by anyone who upholds freedom of belief should be as clear on the streets of Islamabad as it is in the foothills of Waziristan.But everyone recoils. The government backs off through a misguided sense of self-preservation. Weak and fragile, it believes it is being goaded into a conflict it cannot win. So it retreats, backing up against a precipice over which it will eventually fall. Instead of mobilising mass demonstrations against the killings, the Pakistan Peoples party appeases the very forces responsible for the murder of its former leader Benazir Bhutto. The next woman on the death list is Sherry Rehman. Rather than support her bid to reform the blasphemy law and hold the debate where it truly resides, with elected representatives in a parliament (what else was the struggle to end military rule all about?), the PPP prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, hung his former information minister out to dry. Under pressure from religious clerics, he claimed that she had voluntarily withdrawn a bill proposing changes to the law. She had done no such thing. After ruling out reforms, Mr Gilani invited religious leaders to tell him how to prevent misuse of a law. The bulk of the law's victims are Muslim rather than Christian, the latest being a 17-year-old student being held in a juvenile prison after having written allegedly blasphemous remarks on an exam paper. If Mr Gilani becomes the last liberal left standing, he will not be standing for long.The state, too, recoils. The army cultivated and supported the militants as proxy weapons for their own strategic purposes in Kashmir and Afghanistan. Soldiers are the Taliban's principal targets, but links with the militants are still maintained by some of their officers. The judiciary is also party to these suicidal games. Estranged from her party, Ms Rehman is exposed to prosecution in Lahore and Multan on petitions to get her disqualified as an MP and have her tried for blasphemy. This is not justice. It is legal persecution and any court should have thrown these petitions out. The government, the army, the courts are all playing with fire. Appeasement never works and, in the end, that flame will consume them all.", "tags": ["Pakistan's blasphemy laws", "Pakistan", "Religion", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Playing with fire | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-03-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "One by one, those who stick their head above the parapet to demand changes in Pakistan's infamous blasphemy law are being gunned down. First Salmaan Taseer, the governor of Punjab, and now Shahbaz Bhatti, Islamabad's minister for minorities, himself a Christian. To say these men were liberals is to posit a false dichotomy. The people gunning them down are not conservatives. They are people who impose their authority by suicide bombings and murder. Their form of argument is terror, and the battle which should be fought against them by anyone who upholds freedom of belief should be as clear on the streets of Islamabad as it is in the foothills of Waziristan.But everyone recoils. The government backs off through a misguided sense of self-preservation. Weak and fragile, it believes it is being goaded into a conflict it cannot win. So it retreats, backing up against a precipice over which it will eventually fall. Instead of mobilising mass demonstrations against the killings, the Pakistan Peoples party appeases the very forces responsible for the murder of its former leader Benazir Bhutto. The next woman on the death list is Sherry Rehman. Rather than support her bid to reform the blasphemy law and hold the debate where it truly resides, with elected representatives in a parliament (what else was the struggle to end military rule all about?), the PPP prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, hung his former information minister out to dry. Under pressure from religious clerics, he claimed that she had voluntarily withdrawn a bill proposing changes to the law. She had done no such thing. After ruling out reforms, Mr Gilani invited religious leaders to tell him how to prevent misuse of a law. The bulk of the law's victims are Muslim rather than Christian, the latest being a 17-year-old student being held in a juvenile prison after having written allegedly blasphemous remarks on an exam paper. If Mr Gilani becomes the last liberal left standing, he will not be standing for long.The state, too, recoils. The army cultivated and supported the militants as proxy weapons for their own strategic purposes in Kashmir and Afghanistan. Soldiers are the Taliban's principal targets, but links with the militants are still maintained by some of their officers. The judiciary is also party to these suicidal games. Estranged from her party, Ms Rehman is exposed to prosecution in Lahore and Multan on petitions to get her disqualified as an MP and have her tried for blasphemy. This is not justice. It is legal persecution and any court should have thrown these petitions out. The government, the army, the courts are all playing with fire. Appeasement never works and, in the end, that flame will consume them all.", "tags": ["Pakistan's blasphemy laws", "Pakistan", "Religion", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Playing with fire | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-22T08:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last summer in Lahore, I had a little party at my house for the final of the football World Cup. It was a pretty relaxed affair, maybe 20 people, cushions on the TV room floor, pizza on the dining room table. Some of my friends brought friends of their own.One was an American man. He was wearing a light jacket. After he left, my wife told me he was also wearing a gun. Now, I'm open to my friends bringing their friends to my house. But I'm not very accepting of a friend bringing a gun \u2013 or, worse, bringing a complete stranger with a gun. Yet that's what happened, and it left me angry and disturbed.Like everyone else I knew, I'd heard the stories about large numbers of armed Americans in Lahore, staying at such-and-such hotels or working out at such-and-such gyms. Maybe I became more sensitive to their presence after the incident at my house, but suddenly I began to see them all around town. To be precise, I didn't know if the men I was seeing were armed. But they looked like Americans, and they didn't look like rock guitarists or maths teachers or irrigation specialists or heart surgeons. They looked, to my unschooled eye, like what I'd expect trained killers to look like. (Of course it was possible that groups of nonviolent, hard-faced, physically fit, all-male tourist groups with a niche interest not in ancient outdoor monuments but in the interiors of tacky hotels had descended on Lahore, but I thought this unlikely.)Then, last month, in broad daylight on a main Lahore road, one such man, Raymond Davis, shot dead two Pakistani citizens with his Glock, and a US consular car sent to retrieve him killed another Pakistani citizen while speeding the wrong way down a street. Davis is being held by the Pakistani police, the US government is demanding that he be released and threatening to withhold aid to Pakistan if he is not, and the wife of one of the Pakistani men killed has committed suicide saying lucidly from her deathbed that her reason for doing so is that she does not expect Davis will be punished.Meanwhile, the Pakistan government has tied itself up in knots over what should be the straightforward issue of whether Davis has diplomatic immunity, and therefore whether he can be tried in Pakistan. On Sunday, the Guardian revealed that Davis is in fact a CIA agent.What are foreigners with guns doing in Pakistan? I've read articles likening them to Rambo and RoboCop. But I believe another Hollywood film franchise metaphor is more apt. Predator.The affair has brought home what should have been obvious to us Pakistanis for a long time. Pakistan has become a game preserve, a place where deadly creatures are nurtured, and where hunters pay for the chance to kill them.Here in the game preserve, money flows to the hunt. Pakistani extremists are funded, armed and trained. And American hunters, whether far away at the remote controls of Predator drones or on the ground in the form of men with the shooting skills of a Raymond Davis, operate under paid immunity. Want a blanket tribal area hellfire missile licence? That might set you back the price of 18 new F-16s. An all-Lahore Glock licence to kill? Perhaps double-oh-seven billion in development aid.But while the Pakistani population has grudgingly tolerated the notion of a game preserve limited to the Pakistani-Afghan border, the outcry over Davis has demonstrated that a game preserve encompassing the whole country strikes people as a different matter entirely. Which puts both governments in a bind. What are the warden-owners and hunter-consumers of a game preserve to do when the frogs and butterflies and trees and worms that make up the traumatised and hungry population object to its current business model?Because when I speak to my Pakistani friends the message I hear, though far from uniform, is nonetheless becoming increasingly clear. No more Pakistani extremists. No more American killers. And, if it comes to it, no more American aid either. We don't want to live in a game preserve. We want to get on with our lives and build a future in peace for ourselves and our children.The multibillion dollar question is this: do the Pakistani and American states have the capacity to listen?If they do not, then the continued passivity of the long-neglected, inflation-gouged, and violence-subjected people of Pakistan is far from guaranteed. In the meantime, however, widespread reports that our country has produced a more-than-previously-estimated 100 nuclear warheads will surely increase the price of hunting permits. A version of this article first appeared in Dawn", "tags": ["CIA", "US news", "World news", "Pakistan", "US foreign policy", "Mohsin Hamid"], "title": "American predators in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-03-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "One by one, those who stick their head above the parapet to demand changes in Pakistan's infamous blasphemy law are being gunned down. First Salmaan Taseer, the governor of Punjab, and now Shahbaz Bhatti, Islamabad's minister for minorities, himself a Christian. To say these men were liberals is to posit a false dichotomy. The people gunning them down are not conservatives. They are people who impose their authority by suicide bombings and murder. Their form of argument is terror, and the battle which should be fought against them by anyone who upholds freedom of belief should be as clear on the streets of Islamabad as it is in the foothills of Waziristan.But everyone recoils. The government backs off through a misguided sense of self-preservation. Weak and fragile, it believes it is being goaded into a conflict it cannot win. So it retreats, backing up against a precipice over which it will eventually fall. Instead of mobilising mass demonstrations against the killings, the Pakistan Peoples party appeases the very forces responsible for the murder of its former leader Benazir Bhutto. The next woman on the death list is Sherry Rehman. Rather than support her bid to reform the blasphemy law and hold the debate where it truly resides, with elected representatives in a parliament (what else was the struggle to end military rule all about?), the PPP prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, hung his former information minister out to dry. Under pressure from religious clerics, he claimed that she had voluntarily withdrawn a bill proposing changes to the law. She had done no such thing. After ruling out reforms, Mr Gilani invited religious leaders to tell him how to prevent misuse of a law. The bulk of the law's victims are Muslim rather than Christian, the latest being a 17-year-old student being held in a juvenile prison after having written allegedly blasphemous remarks on an exam paper. If Mr Gilani becomes the last liberal left standing, he will not be standing for long.The state, too, recoils. The army cultivated and supported the militants as proxy weapons for their own strategic purposes in Kashmir and Afghanistan. Soldiers are the Taliban's principal targets, but links with the militants are still maintained by some of their officers. The judiciary is also party to these suicidal games. Estranged from her party, Ms Rehman is exposed to prosecution in Lahore and Multan on petitions to get her disqualified as an MP and have her tried for blasphemy. This is not justice. It is legal persecution and any court should have thrown these petitions out. The government, the army, the courts are all playing with fire. Appeasement never works and, in the end, that flame will consume them all.", "tags": ["Pakistan's blasphemy laws", "Pakistan", "Religion", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Playing with fire | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-22T08:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last summer in Lahore, I had a little party at my house for the final of the football World Cup. It was a pretty relaxed affair, maybe 20 people, cushions on the TV room floor, pizza on the dining room table. Some of my friends brought friends of their own.One was an American man. He was wearing a light jacket. After he left, my wife told me he was also wearing a gun. Now, I'm open to my friends bringing their friends to my house. But I'm not very accepting of a friend bringing a gun \u2013 or, worse, bringing a complete stranger with a gun. Yet that's what happened, and it left me angry and disturbed.Like everyone else I knew, I'd heard the stories about large numbers of armed Americans in Lahore, staying at such-and-such hotels or working out at such-and-such gyms. Maybe I became more sensitive to their presence after the incident at my house, but suddenly I began to see them all around town. To be precise, I didn't know if the men I was seeing were armed. But they looked like Americans, and they didn't look like rock guitarists or maths teachers or irrigation specialists or heart surgeons. They looked, to my unschooled eye, like what I'd expect trained killers to look like. (Of course it was possible that groups of nonviolent, hard-faced, physically fit, all-male tourist groups with a niche interest not in ancient outdoor monuments but in the interiors of tacky hotels had descended on Lahore, but I thought this unlikely.)Then, last month, in broad daylight on a main Lahore road, one such man, Raymond Davis, shot dead two Pakistani citizens with his Glock, and a US consular car sent to retrieve him killed another Pakistani citizen while speeding the wrong way down a street. Davis is being held by the Pakistani police, the US government is demanding that he be released and threatening to withhold aid to Pakistan if he is not, and the wife of one of the Pakistani men killed has committed suicide saying lucidly from her deathbed that her reason for doing so is that she does not expect Davis will be punished.Meanwhile, the Pakistan government has tied itself up in knots over what should be the straightforward issue of whether Davis has diplomatic immunity, and therefore whether he can be tried in Pakistan. On Sunday, the Guardian revealed that Davis is in fact a CIA agent.What are foreigners with guns doing in Pakistan? I've read articles likening them to Rambo and RoboCop. But I believe another Hollywood film franchise metaphor is more apt. Predator.The affair has brought home what should have been obvious to us Pakistanis for a long time. Pakistan has become a game preserve, a place where deadly creatures are nurtured, and where hunters pay for the chance to kill them.Here in the game preserve, money flows to the hunt. Pakistani extremists are funded, armed and trained. And American hunters, whether far away at the remote controls of Predator drones or on the ground in the form of men with the shooting skills of a Raymond Davis, operate under paid immunity. Want a blanket tribal area hellfire missile licence? That might set you back the price of 18 new F-16s. An all-Lahore Glock licence to kill? Perhaps double-oh-seven billion in development aid.But while the Pakistani population has grudgingly tolerated the notion of a game preserve limited to the Pakistani-Afghan border, the outcry over Davis has demonstrated that a game preserve encompassing the whole country strikes people as a different matter entirely. Which puts both governments in a bind. What are the warden-owners and hunter-consumers of a game preserve to do when the frogs and butterflies and trees and worms that make up the traumatised and hungry population object to its current business model?Because when I speak to my Pakistani friends the message I hear, though far from uniform, is nonetheless becoming increasingly clear. No more Pakistani extremists. No more American killers. And, if it comes to it, no more American aid either. We don't want to live in a game preserve. We want to get on with our lives and build a future in peace for ourselves and our children.The multibillion dollar question is this: do the Pakistani and American states have the capacity to listen?If they do not, then the continued passivity of the long-neglected, inflation-gouged, and violence-subjected people of Pakistan is far from guaranteed. In the meantime, however, widespread reports that our country has produced a more-than-previously-estimated 100 nuclear warheads will surely increase the price of hunting permits. A version of this article first appeared in Dawn", "tags": ["CIA", "US news", "World news", "Pakistan", "US foreign policy", "Mohsin Hamid"], "title": "American predators in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-01-15T13:31:59Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I reported on Thursday that Pakistan was the most murderous country for journalists in 2010. On the same day, another Pakistani journalist, Wali Khan Babar, was shot dead in Karachi.The 28-year-old reporter for Geo News television was shot five times while driving home in his car in what is believed to have been a targeted attack.\"The killing of a prominent reporter from the country's largest news network in the largest city of Pakistan is a disturbing new development,\" said Cyril Almeida, assistant editor for Pakistan's Dawn Media Group.\"While Pakistani journalists are often under threat, it tends to be... in more remote parts of the country.\" Babar's killing appears to have been part of a coordinated action in which at least 19 people were killed.After the murder, journalists in several Pakistan cities staged protest rallies to demand a judicial investigation.The killing follows the murder on 5 January of 22-year-old Balochistan reporter, Ilyas Nazar.Sources: IPI/Bernama.com/Dawn", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "World news"], "title": "Another Pakistan journalist murdered"},{"date": "2011-03-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "One by one, those who stick their head above the parapet to demand changes in Pakistan's infamous blasphemy law are being gunned down. First Salmaan Taseer, the governor of Punjab, and now Shahbaz Bhatti, Islamabad's minister for minorities, himself a Christian. To say these men were liberals is to posit a false dichotomy. The people gunning them down are not conservatives. They are people who impose their authority by suicide bombings and murder. Their form of argument is terror, and the battle which should be fought against them by anyone who upholds freedom of belief should be as clear on the streets of Islamabad as it is in the foothills of Waziristan.But everyone recoils. The government backs off through a misguided sense of self-preservation. Weak and fragile, it believes it is being goaded into a conflict it cannot win. So it retreats, backing up against a precipice over which it will eventually fall. Instead of mobilising mass demonstrations against the killings, the Pakistan Peoples party appeases the very forces responsible for the murder of its former leader Benazir Bhutto. The next woman on the death list is Sherry Rehman. Rather than support her bid to reform the blasphemy law and hold the debate where it truly resides, with elected representatives in a parliament (what else was the struggle to end military rule all about?), the PPP prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, hung his former information minister out to dry. Under pressure from religious clerics, he claimed that she had voluntarily withdrawn a bill proposing changes to the law. She had done no such thing. After ruling out reforms, Mr Gilani invited religious leaders to tell him how to prevent misuse of a law. The bulk of the law's victims are Muslim rather than Christian, the latest being a 17-year-old student being held in a juvenile prison after having written allegedly blasphemous remarks on an exam paper. If Mr Gilani becomes the last liberal left standing, he will not be standing for long.The state, too, recoils. The army cultivated and supported the militants as proxy weapons for their own strategic purposes in Kashmir and Afghanistan. Soldiers are the Taliban's principal targets, but links with the militants are still maintained by some of their officers. The judiciary is also party to these suicidal games. Estranged from her party, Ms Rehman is exposed to prosecution in Lahore and Multan on petitions to get her disqualified as an MP and have her tried for blasphemy. This is not justice. It is legal persecution and any court should have thrown these petitions out. The government, the army, the courts are all playing with fire. Appeasement never works and, in the end, that flame will consume them all.", "tags": ["Pakistan's blasphemy laws", "Pakistan", "Religion", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Playing with fire | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-22T08:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last summer in Lahore, I had a little party at my house for the final of the football World Cup. It was a pretty relaxed affair, maybe 20 people, cushions on the TV room floor, pizza on the dining room table. Some of my friends brought friends of their own.One was an American man. He was wearing a light jacket. After he left, my wife told me he was also wearing a gun. Now, I'm open to my friends bringing their friends to my house. But I'm not very accepting of a friend bringing a gun \u2013 or, worse, bringing a complete stranger with a gun. Yet that's what happened, and it left me angry and disturbed.Like everyone else I knew, I'd heard the stories about large numbers of armed Americans in Lahore, staying at such-and-such hotels or working out at such-and-such gyms. Maybe I became more sensitive to their presence after the incident at my house, but suddenly I began to see them all around town. To be precise, I didn't know if the men I was seeing were armed. But they looked like Americans, and they didn't look like rock guitarists or maths teachers or irrigation specialists or heart surgeons. They looked, to my unschooled eye, like what I'd expect trained killers to look like. (Of course it was possible that groups of nonviolent, hard-faced, physically fit, all-male tourist groups with a niche interest not in ancient outdoor monuments but in the interiors of tacky hotels had descended on Lahore, but I thought this unlikely.)Then, last month, in broad daylight on a main Lahore road, one such man, Raymond Davis, shot dead two Pakistani citizens with his Glock, and a US consular car sent to retrieve him killed another Pakistani citizen while speeding the wrong way down a street. Davis is being held by the Pakistani police, the US government is demanding that he be released and threatening to withhold aid to Pakistan if he is not, and the wife of one of the Pakistani men killed has committed suicide saying lucidly from her deathbed that her reason for doing so is that she does not expect Davis will be punished.Meanwhile, the Pakistan government has tied itself up in knots over what should be the straightforward issue of whether Davis has diplomatic immunity, and therefore whether he can be tried in Pakistan. On Sunday, the Guardian revealed that Davis is in fact a CIA agent.What are foreigners with guns doing in Pakistan? I've read articles likening them to Rambo and RoboCop. But I believe another Hollywood film franchise metaphor is more apt. Predator.The affair has brought home what should have been obvious to us Pakistanis for a long time. Pakistan has become a game preserve, a place where deadly creatures are nurtured, and where hunters pay for the chance to kill them.Here in the game preserve, money flows to the hunt. Pakistani extremists are funded, armed and trained. And American hunters, whether far away at the remote controls of Predator drones or on the ground in the form of men with the shooting skills of a Raymond Davis, operate under paid immunity. Want a blanket tribal area hellfire missile licence? That might set you back the price of 18 new F-16s. An all-Lahore Glock licence to kill? Perhaps double-oh-seven billion in development aid.But while the Pakistani population has grudgingly tolerated the notion of a game preserve limited to the Pakistani-Afghan border, the outcry over Davis has demonstrated that a game preserve encompassing the whole country strikes people as a different matter entirely. Which puts both governments in a bind. What are the warden-owners and hunter-consumers of a game preserve to do when the frogs and butterflies and trees and worms that make up the traumatised and hungry population object to its current business model?Because when I speak to my Pakistani friends the message I hear, though far from uniform, is nonetheless becoming increasingly clear. No more Pakistani extremists. No more American killers. And, if it comes to it, no more American aid either. We don't want to live in a game preserve. We want to get on with our lives and build a future in peace for ourselves and our children.The multibillion dollar question is this: do the Pakistani and American states have the capacity to listen?If they do not, then the continued passivity of the long-neglected, inflation-gouged, and violence-subjected people of Pakistan is far from guaranteed. In the meantime, however, widespread reports that our country has produced a more-than-previously-estimated 100 nuclear warheads will surely increase the price of hunting permits. A version of this article first appeared in Dawn", "tags": ["CIA", "US news", "World news", "Pakistan", "US foreign policy", "Mohsin Hamid"], "title": "American predators in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-01-15T13:31:59Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I reported on Thursday that Pakistan was the most murderous country for journalists in 2010. On the same day, another Pakistani journalist, Wali Khan Babar, was shot dead in Karachi.The 28-year-old reporter for Geo News television was shot five times while driving home in his car in what is believed to have been a targeted attack.\"The killing of a prominent reporter from the country's largest news network in the largest city of Pakistan is a disturbing new development,\" said Cyril Almeida, assistant editor for Pakistan's Dawn Media Group.\"While Pakistani journalists are often under threat, it tends to be... in more remote parts of the country.\" Babar's killing appears to have been part of a coordinated action in which at least 19 people were killed.After the murder, journalists in several Pakistan cities staged protest rallies to demand a judicial investigation.The killing follows the murder on 5 January of 22-year-old Balochistan reporter, Ilyas Nazar.Sources: IPI/Bernama.com/Dawn", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "World news"], "title": "Another Pakistan journalist murdered"},{"date": "2011-03-02T21:57:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has lost another brave heart. Two months after the Punjab governor Salmaan Taseer, my father, was assassinated for speaking out against Pakistan's cruel blasphemy laws, Shahbaz Bhatti was shot dead by unknown assailants. Bhatti was one of Pakistan's progressives.Under his guidance, the government introduced affirmative action for minorities \u2013 5% of all federal employment \u2013 and designated 11 August a holiday to celebrate minorities. He banned the sale of properties belonging to minorities while law enforcement authorities took action against them. He launched a national campaign to promote inter-faith harmony through seminars, awareness groups and workshops and was initiating comparative religion classes into schools and universities.Bhatti introduced a prayer room for non-Muslims in the prison system, and started a 24-hour crisis hotline to report acts of violence against minorities. He began a campaign to protect religious artefacts and sites that belong to minorities. This is the man we have lost.The majority of Pakistani dignitaries fell silent after my father's murder, but Bhatti spoke out and condemned it. Many times. I will never forget that. He continued to support the revisions to the blasphemy law knowing he was up against a clerical tsunami. I salute his bravery. But the frontiers of free expression have shrunk drastically. In a country that calls itself a democracy, one wonders if there is space any more for dissent and debate.Taseer and Bhatti's murders are a grim warning to those who dare to speak out against injustices.Bhatti's killers left behind their pamphlets signed by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Punjab , their warning \"from the warriors of Islam to all the world's infidels, crusaders, Jews and their operatives within the Muslim brotherhood\".The document from the Punjabi Taliban continues: \"In your fight against Allah, you have become so bold that you act in favour of and support those who insult the Prophet. And you put a cursed Christian infidel Shahbaz Bhatti in charge of [the blasphemy laws review] committee. This is the fate of that cursed man. And now, with the grace of Allah, the warriors of Islam will pick you out one by one and send you to hell, God willing.\"The blasphemy laws were foisted on to Pakistan by the draconian General Zia ul-Haq in 1986. Since then, more than 500 Muslims, 340 Ahmadis, 119 Christians, 14 Hindus and 10 others have been charged under the laws.Thirty-two of those accused \u2013 and two Muslim judges \u2013 have been mowed down by Islamist vigilantes. Since 4 January, the day my father was assassinated, there have been 16 known cases in which 23 people have been affected. Once a law is made in the name of religion, no one can touch it.The state has abdicated its responsibilities. The majority of our dignitaries and government officials are spineless. There is no will to implement existing laws. Why were four armed men allowed to drive around the capital city? Why did they carry Kalashnikovs? Why are guns given out so easily? And why did these men feel justified taking the law into their own hands?The state has failed to provide a viable alternative in terms of economic and educational opportunities to those who resort to extremism. The madrassa system \u2013 spewing venom and hatred left, right and centre \u2013 is not monitored and the extremists are freely raising another generation like them. Or worse.Moreover, the state mollycoddles and divides them into \"good Taliban\" and \"bad Taliban\". The \"good\" ones are armed, funded, and taken care of. But now the knives are turning inwards.If there is one thing made abundantly clear by Taseer and Bhatti's murders it is this: the chickens have come home to roost.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Shehrbano Taseer: Salmaan Taseer and Shahbaz Bhatti's murders are a grim warning to those who dare to speak out against injustices."},{"date": "2011-03-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "One by one, those who stick their head above the parapet to demand changes in Pakistan's infamous blasphemy law are being gunned down. First Salmaan Taseer, the governor of Punjab, and now Shahbaz Bhatti, Islamabad's minister for minorities, himself a Christian. To say these men were liberals is to posit a false dichotomy. The people gunning them down are not conservatives. They are people who impose their authority by suicide bombings and murder. Their form of argument is terror, and the battle which should be fought against them by anyone who upholds freedom of belief should be as clear on the streets of Islamabad as it is in the foothills of Waziristan.But everyone recoils. The government backs off through a misguided sense of self-preservation. Weak and fragile, it believes it is being goaded into a conflict it cannot win. So it retreats, backing up against a precipice over which it will eventually fall. Instead of mobilising mass demonstrations against the killings, the Pakistan Peoples party appeases the very forces responsible for the murder of its former leader Benazir Bhutto. The next woman on the death list is Sherry Rehman. Rather than support her bid to reform the blasphemy law and hold the debate where it truly resides, with elected representatives in a parliament (what else was the struggle to end military rule all about?), the PPP prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, hung his former information minister out to dry. Under pressure from religious clerics, he claimed that she had voluntarily withdrawn a bill proposing changes to the law. She had done no such thing. After ruling out reforms, Mr Gilani invited religious leaders to tell him how to prevent misuse of a law. The bulk of the law's victims are Muslim rather than Christian, the latest being a 17-year-old student being held in a juvenile prison after having written allegedly blasphemous remarks on an exam paper. If Mr Gilani becomes the last liberal left standing, he will not be standing for long.The state, too, recoils. The army cultivated and supported the militants as proxy weapons for their own strategic purposes in Kashmir and Afghanistan. Soldiers are the Taliban's principal targets, but links with the militants are still maintained by some of their officers. The judiciary is also party to these suicidal games. Estranged from her party, Ms Rehman is exposed to prosecution in Lahore and Multan on petitions to get her disqualified as an MP and have her tried for blasphemy. This is not justice. It is legal persecution and any court should have thrown these petitions out. The government, the army, the courts are all playing with fire. Appeasement never works and, in the end, that flame will consume them all.", "tags": ["Pakistan's blasphemy laws", "Pakistan", "Religion", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Playing with fire | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-22T08:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last summer in Lahore, I had a little party at my house for the final of the football World Cup. It was a pretty relaxed affair, maybe 20 people, cushions on the TV room floor, pizza on the dining room table. Some of my friends brought friends of their own.One was an American man. He was wearing a light jacket. After he left, my wife told me he was also wearing a gun. Now, I'm open to my friends bringing their friends to my house. But I'm not very accepting of a friend bringing a gun \u2013 or, worse, bringing a complete stranger with a gun. Yet that's what happened, and it left me angry and disturbed.Like everyone else I knew, I'd heard the stories about large numbers of armed Americans in Lahore, staying at such-and-such hotels or working out at such-and-such gyms. Maybe I became more sensitive to their presence after the incident at my house, but suddenly I began to see them all around town. To be precise, I didn't know if the men I was seeing were armed. But they looked like Americans, and they didn't look like rock guitarists or maths teachers or irrigation specialists or heart surgeons. They looked, to my unschooled eye, like what I'd expect trained killers to look like. (Of course it was possible that groups of nonviolent, hard-faced, physically fit, all-male tourist groups with a niche interest not in ancient outdoor monuments but in the interiors of tacky hotels had descended on Lahore, but I thought this unlikely.)Then, last month, in broad daylight on a main Lahore road, one such man, Raymond Davis, shot dead two Pakistani citizens with his Glock, and a US consular car sent to retrieve him killed another Pakistani citizen while speeding the wrong way down a street. Davis is being held by the Pakistani police, the US government is demanding that he be released and threatening to withhold aid to Pakistan if he is not, and the wife of one of the Pakistani men killed has committed suicide saying lucidly from her deathbed that her reason for doing so is that she does not expect Davis will be punished.Meanwhile, the Pakistan government has tied itself up in knots over what should be the straightforward issue of whether Davis has diplomatic immunity, and therefore whether he can be tried in Pakistan. On Sunday, the Guardian revealed that Davis is in fact a CIA agent.What are foreigners with guns doing in Pakistan? I've read articles likening them to Rambo and RoboCop. But I believe another Hollywood film franchise metaphor is more apt. Predator.The affair has brought home what should have been obvious to us Pakistanis for a long time. Pakistan has become a game preserve, a place where deadly creatures are nurtured, and where hunters pay for the chance to kill them.Here in the game preserve, money flows to the hunt. Pakistani extremists are funded, armed and trained. And American hunters, whether far away at the remote controls of Predator drones or on the ground in the form of men with the shooting skills of a Raymond Davis, operate under paid immunity. Want a blanket tribal area hellfire missile licence? That might set you back the price of 18 new F-16s. An all-Lahore Glock licence to kill? Perhaps double-oh-seven billion in development aid.But while the Pakistani population has grudgingly tolerated the notion of a game preserve limited to the Pakistani-Afghan border, the outcry over Davis has demonstrated that a game preserve encompassing the whole country strikes people as a different matter entirely. Which puts both governments in a bind. What are the warden-owners and hunter-consumers of a game preserve to do when the frogs and butterflies and trees and worms that make up the traumatised and hungry population object to its current business model?Because when I speak to my Pakistani friends the message I hear, though far from uniform, is nonetheless becoming increasingly clear. No more Pakistani extremists. No more American killers. And, if it comes to it, no more American aid either. We don't want to live in a game preserve. We want to get on with our lives and build a future in peace for ourselves and our children.The multibillion dollar question is this: do the Pakistani and American states have the capacity to listen?If they do not, then the continued passivity of the long-neglected, inflation-gouged, and violence-subjected people of Pakistan is far from guaranteed. In the meantime, however, widespread reports that our country has produced a more-than-previously-estimated 100 nuclear warheads will surely increase the price of hunting permits. A version of this article first appeared in Dawn", "tags": ["CIA", "US news", "World news", "Pakistan", "US foreign policy", "Mohsin Hamid"], "title": "American predators in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-01-15T13:31:59Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I reported on Thursday that Pakistan was the most murderous country for journalists in 2010. On the same day, another Pakistani journalist, Wali Khan Babar, was shot dead in Karachi.The 28-year-old reporter for Geo News television was shot five times while driving home in his car in what is believed to have been a targeted attack.\"The killing of a prominent reporter from the country's largest news network in the largest city of Pakistan is a disturbing new development,\" said Cyril Almeida, assistant editor for Pakistan's Dawn Media Group.\"While Pakistani journalists are often under threat, it tends to be... in more remote parts of the country.\" Babar's killing appears to have been part of a coordinated action in which at least 19 people were killed.After the murder, journalists in several Pakistan cities staged protest rallies to demand a judicial investigation.The killing follows the murder on 5 January of 22-year-old Balochistan reporter, Ilyas Nazar.Sources: IPI/Bernama.com/Dawn", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "World news"], "title": "Another Pakistan journalist murdered"},{"date": "2011-03-02T21:57:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has lost another brave heart. Two months after the Punjab governor Salmaan Taseer, my father, was assassinated for speaking out against Pakistan's cruel blasphemy laws, Shahbaz Bhatti was shot dead by unknown assailants. Bhatti was one of Pakistan's progressives.Under his guidance, the government introduced affirmative action for minorities \u2013 5% of all federal employment \u2013 and designated 11 August a holiday to celebrate minorities. He banned the sale of properties belonging to minorities while law enforcement authorities took action against them. He launched a national campaign to promote inter-faith harmony through seminars, awareness groups and workshops and was initiating comparative religion classes into schools and universities.Bhatti introduced a prayer room for non-Muslims in the prison system, and started a 24-hour crisis hotline to report acts of violence against minorities. He began a campaign to protect religious artefacts and sites that belong to minorities. This is the man we have lost.The majority of Pakistani dignitaries fell silent after my father's murder, but Bhatti spoke out and condemned it. Many times. I will never forget that. He continued to support the revisions to the blasphemy law knowing he was up against a clerical tsunami. I salute his bravery. But the frontiers of free expression have shrunk drastically. In a country that calls itself a democracy, one wonders if there is space any more for dissent and debate.Taseer and Bhatti's murders are a grim warning to those who dare to speak out against injustices.Bhatti's killers left behind their pamphlets signed by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Punjab , their warning \"from the warriors of Islam to all the world's infidels, crusaders, Jews and their operatives within the Muslim brotherhood\".The document from the Punjabi Taliban continues: \"In your fight against Allah, you have become so bold that you act in favour of and support those who insult the Prophet. And you put a cursed Christian infidel Shahbaz Bhatti in charge of [the blasphemy laws review] committee. This is the fate of that cursed man. And now, with the grace of Allah, the warriors of Islam will pick you out one by one and send you to hell, God willing.\"The blasphemy laws were foisted on to Pakistan by the draconian General Zia ul-Haq in 1986. Since then, more than 500 Muslims, 340 Ahmadis, 119 Christians, 14 Hindus and 10 others have been charged under the laws.Thirty-two of those accused \u2013 and two Muslim judges \u2013 have been mowed down by Islamist vigilantes. Since 4 January, the day my father was assassinated, there have been 16 known cases in which 23 people have been affected. Once a law is made in the name of religion, no one can touch it.The state has abdicated its responsibilities. The majority of our dignitaries and government officials are spineless. There is no will to implement existing laws. Why were four armed men allowed to drive around the capital city? Why did they carry Kalashnikovs? Why are guns given out so easily? And why did these men feel justified taking the law into their own hands?The state has failed to provide a viable alternative in terms of economic and educational opportunities to those who resort to extremism. The madrassa system \u2013 spewing venom and hatred left, right and centre \u2013 is not monitored and the extremists are freely raising another generation like them. Or worse.Moreover, the state mollycoddles and divides them into \"good Taliban\" and \"bad Taliban\". The \"good\" ones are armed, funded, and taken care of. But now the knives are turning inwards.If there is one thing made abundantly clear by Taseer and Bhatti's murders it is this: the chickens have come home to roost.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Shehrbano Taseer: Salmaan Taseer and Shahbaz Bhatti's murders are a grim warning to those who dare to speak out against injustices."},{"date": "2011-02-15T07:00:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "As Hosni Mubarak reluctantly retired last Friday night, another revolt was reaching its climax in Pakistan. For four days the workers of Pakistan International Airlines (PIA), the national carrier, had been on strike. Some 25,000 passengers were stranded, including me.I was stuck in Quetta, a tense, paranoid city near the Afghan border where the security forces are engaged in a ruthless cat-and-mouse game with nationalist rebels; it is also a supposed refuge for the one-eyed Taliban leader Mullah Omar. As the skies emptied of planes, guests from my hotel fled Quetta by car, crossing the sprawling deserts, or chancing the rickety 22-hour train ride to Karachi. I stayed put.On TV the picture flipped from ecstatic crowds surging through Tahrir Square in Cairo, to Pakistani riot police baton-charging PIA workers at Karachi airport. The strike was over planned reforms. PIA is a bloated, sick elephant. It has 400 employees per aircraft \u2013 about three times the norm \u2013 and last year it asked the government to pay $1.7bn (\u00a31.06bn) in debt. But the unions objected to plans to rationalise the workforce, and demanded that managing director Aijaz Haroon resign. And so on Friday night, under immense pressure, he went, resigning at the same time as Mubarak fell in Egypt.As the screen filled with ecstatic revolutionaries surging through Tahrir Square, a note of envy sounded among Pakistanis on Twitter. Could the glorious revolution spread to their country? \"I\u00a0wish, wish, wish Pakistan could be next,\" wrote the author Fatima Bhutto.Pakistan certainly seems ripe for revolt. It is perpetually on a knife edge \u2013 extremists plot and explode bombs, senior politicians are assassinated, society seethes with discontent. A slim upper crust floats in a bubble of wealth and privilege \u2013 the local version of Hello! offers coverage of upper-class toddler parties \u2013 while the poor grind along under soaring food inflation and 12-hour power cuts. Regional tensions threaten to pull the country asunder. In Quetta, residents were shivering in their homes because the rebels had blown up the gas pipelines four times over the previous week.\"We're in a bad way,\" one mournful lawyer told me before I left, glancing over his shoulder to see if intelligence officials were evesdropping.Some analysts compare the mood to Iran in 1979, when a restive middle-class upended the American-backed Shah and opened the door to theocratic Islamic rule. Yet on the ground in Pakistan, the whiff of revolution is faint. For a start, the country is too fractured. Take Karachi, a sprawling megalopolis of 16 million people, about the size of Cairo. Control of the city is divided between a patchwork of political, sectarian and criminal gangs. All are heavily armed. Protests against Pervez Musharraf in the city four years ago pitted rival groups against each other, triggering a bloodbath.The bigger problem, perhaps, is that there is no dictator to overthrow. Pakistanis already have democracy, elections and a vigorous press. But among the educated classes, few want to engage with the political system, considering it dirty and corrupt. And so they focus their frustration on their president, Asif Ali Zardari, a fantastically unpopular figure. Locked into his fortified Islamabad palace, Zardari is portrayed by a hostile media as aloof and corrupt, a schemer and a shyster. Many people are prepared to believe the most lurid stories about him, including that he plotted the assassination of his wife, Benazir Bhutto, in 2007. Zardari-hating has become a virtual fetish among the chattering classes.Some of this is warranted \u2013 his government disastrously bungled the recent blasphemy furore, and is struggling to deal with the case of Raymond Davis, an American official who shot two people dead on a Lahore street. Corruption is certainly rife, although many of the wilder stories are almost certainly exaggerated. But the hard truth is that power in Pakistan resides inside the gleaming halls of the army headquarters, where liveried generals hold the keys to the country's nuclear weapons \u2013 more than 100, according to one recent count \u2013 and control policy with India, Afghanistan and America.And so a true revolution in Pakistan would see the army being ousted from power\u2013 except that would be tricky, because it isn't officially in charge.The real danger, however, may lie in the dark clouds gathering over the economy. Ccompanies such as PIA are sucking the Treasury dry; last week's strike demonstrated scant political will to get them into shape. On the revenue side, the rich refuse to pay tax \u2013 the tax-to-GDP ratio is a disastrously low 9% and many politicians pay just a few hundred pounds tax per year. To plug this hole, the government has resorted to printing money at an alarming pace. Few doubt it is unsustainable. Over tea in his office, a senior western diplomat told me the economy was his \"number one priority\".Economists say the bubble could burst in a matter of months \u2013 rocketing inflation, a crashing currency, capital flight. If that happens, trouble could stir on the streets, notwithstanding Pakistanis' amazing tolerance for adversity. But it's unlikely to have the same clean lines as the Egyptian revolt. And its consequences could be just as unpredictable.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pervez Musharraf", "World news"], "title": "Will revolution spread to Pakistan? | Declan Walsh"},{"date": "2011-03-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "One by one, those who stick their head above the parapet to demand changes in Pakistan's infamous blasphemy law are being gunned down. First Salmaan Taseer, the governor of Punjab, and now Shahbaz Bhatti, Islamabad's minister for minorities, himself a Christian. To say these men were liberals is to posit a false dichotomy. The people gunning them down are not conservatives. They are people who impose their authority by suicide bombings and murder. Their form of argument is terror, and the battle which should be fought against them by anyone who upholds freedom of belief should be as clear on the streets of Islamabad as it is in the foothills of Waziristan.But everyone recoils. The government backs off through a misguided sense of self-preservation. Weak and fragile, it believes it is being goaded into a conflict it cannot win. So it retreats, backing up against a precipice over which it will eventually fall. Instead of mobilising mass demonstrations against the killings, the Pakistan Peoples party appeases the very forces responsible for the murder of its former leader Benazir Bhutto. The next woman on the death list is Sherry Rehman. Rather than support her bid to reform the blasphemy law and hold the debate where it truly resides, with elected representatives in a parliament (what else was the struggle to end military rule all about?), the PPP prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, hung his former information minister out to dry. Under pressure from religious clerics, he claimed that she had voluntarily withdrawn a bill proposing changes to the law. She had done no such thing. After ruling out reforms, Mr Gilani invited religious leaders to tell him how to prevent misuse of a law. The bulk of the law's victims are Muslim rather than Christian, the latest being a 17-year-old student being held in a juvenile prison after having written allegedly blasphemous remarks on an exam paper. If Mr Gilani becomes the last liberal left standing, he will not be standing for long.The state, too, recoils. The army cultivated and supported the militants as proxy weapons for their own strategic purposes in Kashmir and Afghanistan. Soldiers are the Taliban's principal targets, but links with the militants are still maintained by some of their officers. The judiciary is also party to these suicidal games. Estranged from her party, Ms Rehman is exposed to prosecution in Lahore and Multan on petitions to get her disqualified as an MP and have her tried for blasphemy. This is not justice. It is legal persecution and any court should have thrown these petitions out. The government, the army, the courts are all playing with fire. Appeasement never works and, in the end, that flame will consume them all.", "tags": ["Pakistan's blasphemy laws", "Pakistan", "Religion", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: Playing with fire | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-22T08:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last summer in Lahore, I had a little party at my house for the final of the football World Cup. It was a pretty relaxed affair, maybe 20 people, cushions on the TV room floor, pizza on the dining room table. Some of my friends brought friends of their own.One was an American man. He was wearing a light jacket. After he left, my wife told me he was also wearing a gun. Now, I'm open to my friends bringing their friends to my house. But I'm not very accepting of a friend bringing a gun \u2013 or, worse, bringing a complete stranger with a gun. Yet that's what happened, and it left me angry and disturbed.Like everyone else I knew, I'd heard the stories about large numbers of armed Americans in Lahore, staying at such-and-such hotels or working out at such-and-such gyms. Maybe I became more sensitive to their presence after the incident at my house, but suddenly I began to see them all around town. To be precise, I didn't know if the men I was seeing were armed. But they looked like Americans, and they didn't look like rock guitarists or maths teachers or irrigation specialists or heart surgeons. They looked, to my unschooled eye, like what I'd expect trained killers to look like. (Of course it was possible that groups of nonviolent, hard-faced, physically fit, all-male tourist groups with a niche interest not in ancient outdoor monuments but in the interiors of tacky hotels had descended on Lahore, but I thought this unlikely.)Then, last month, in broad daylight on a main Lahore road, one such man, Raymond Davis, shot dead two Pakistani citizens with his Glock, and a US consular car sent to retrieve him killed another Pakistani citizen while speeding the wrong way down a street. Davis is being held by the Pakistani police, the US government is demanding that he be released and threatening to withhold aid to Pakistan if he is not, and the wife of one of the Pakistani men killed has committed suicide saying lucidly from her deathbed that her reason for doing so is that she does not expect Davis will be punished.Meanwhile, the Pakistan government has tied itself up in knots over what should be the straightforward issue of whether Davis has diplomatic immunity, and therefore whether he can be tried in Pakistan. On Sunday, the Guardian revealed that Davis is in fact a CIA agent.What are foreigners with guns doing in Pakistan? I've read articles likening them to Rambo and RoboCop. But I believe another Hollywood film franchise metaphor is more apt. Predator.The affair has brought home what should have been obvious to us Pakistanis for a long time. Pakistan has become a game preserve, a place where deadly creatures are nurtured, and where hunters pay for the chance to kill them.Here in the game preserve, money flows to the hunt. Pakistani extremists are funded, armed and trained. And American hunters, whether far away at the remote controls of Predator drones or on the ground in the form of men with the shooting skills of a Raymond Davis, operate under paid immunity. Want a blanket tribal area hellfire missile licence? That might set you back the price of 18 new F-16s. An all-Lahore Glock licence to kill? Perhaps double-oh-seven billion in development aid.But while the Pakistani population has grudgingly tolerated the notion of a game preserve limited to the Pakistani-Afghan border, the outcry over Davis has demonstrated that a game preserve encompassing the whole country strikes people as a different matter entirely. Which puts both governments in a bind. What are the warden-owners and hunter-consumers of a game preserve to do when the frogs and butterflies and trees and worms that make up the traumatised and hungry population object to its current business model?Because when I speak to my Pakistani friends the message I hear, though far from uniform, is nonetheless becoming increasingly clear. No more Pakistani extremists. No more American killers. And, if it comes to it, no more American aid either. We don't want to live in a game preserve. We want to get on with our lives and build a future in peace for ourselves and our children.The multibillion dollar question is this: do the Pakistani and American states have the capacity to listen?If they do not, then the continued passivity of the long-neglected, inflation-gouged, and violence-subjected people of Pakistan is far from guaranteed. In the meantime, however, widespread reports that our country has produced a more-than-previously-estimated 100 nuclear warheads will surely increase the price of hunting permits. A version of this article first appeared in Dawn", "tags": ["CIA", "US news", "World news", "Pakistan", "US foreign policy", "Mohsin Hamid"], "title": "American predators in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-01-15T13:31:59Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I reported on Thursday that Pakistan was the most murderous country for journalists in 2010. On the same day, another Pakistani journalist, Wali Khan Babar, was shot dead in Karachi.The 28-year-old reporter for Geo News television was shot five times while driving home in his car in what is believed to have been a targeted attack.\"The killing of a prominent reporter from the country's largest news network in the largest city of Pakistan is a disturbing new development,\" said Cyril Almeida, assistant editor for Pakistan's Dawn Media Group.\"While Pakistani journalists are often under threat, it tends to be... in more remote parts of the country.\" Babar's killing appears to have been part of a coordinated action in which at least 19 people were killed.After the murder, journalists in several Pakistan cities staged protest rallies to demand a judicial investigation.The killing follows the murder on 5 January of 22-year-old Balochistan reporter, Ilyas Nazar.Sources: IPI/Bernama.com/Dawn", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "World news"], "title": "Another Pakistan journalist murdered"},{"date": "2011-03-02T21:57:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has lost another brave heart. Two months after the Punjab governor Salmaan Taseer, my father, was assassinated for speaking out against Pakistan's cruel blasphemy laws, Shahbaz Bhatti was shot dead by unknown assailants. Bhatti was one of Pakistan's progressives.Under his guidance, the government introduced affirmative action for minorities \u2013 5% of all federal employment \u2013 and designated 11 August a holiday to celebrate minorities. He banned the sale of properties belonging to minorities while law enforcement authorities took action against them. He launched a national campaign to promote inter-faith harmony through seminars, awareness groups and workshops and was initiating comparative religion classes into schools and universities.Bhatti introduced a prayer room for non-Muslims in the prison system, and started a 24-hour crisis hotline to report acts of violence against minorities. He began a campaign to protect religious artefacts and sites that belong to minorities. This is the man we have lost.The majority of Pakistani dignitaries fell silent after my father's murder, but Bhatti spoke out and condemned it. Many times. I will never forget that. He continued to support the revisions to the blasphemy law knowing he was up against a clerical tsunami. I salute his bravery. But the frontiers of free expression have shrunk drastically. In a country that calls itself a democracy, one wonders if there is space any more for dissent and debate.Taseer and Bhatti's murders are a grim warning to those who dare to speak out against injustices.Bhatti's killers left behind their pamphlets signed by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Punjab , their warning \"from the warriors of Islam to all the world's infidels, crusaders, Jews and their operatives within the Muslim brotherhood\".The document from the Punjabi Taliban continues: \"In your fight against Allah, you have become so bold that you act in favour of and support those who insult the Prophet. And you put a cursed Christian infidel Shahbaz Bhatti in charge of [the blasphemy laws review] committee. This is the fate of that cursed man. And now, with the grace of Allah, the warriors of Islam will pick you out one by one and send you to hell, God willing.\"The blasphemy laws were foisted on to Pakistan by the draconian General Zia ul-Haq in 1986. Since then, more than 500 Muslims, 340 Ahmadis, 119 Christians, 14 Hindus and 10 others have been charged under the laws.Thirty-two of those accused \u2013 and two Muslim judges \u2013 have been mowed down by Islamist vigilantes. Since 4 January, the day my father was assassinated, there have been 16 known cases in which 23 people have been affected. Once a law is made in the name of religion, no one can touch it.The state has abdicated its responsibilities. The majority of our dignitaries and government officials are spineless. There is no will to implement existing laws. Why were four armed men allowed to drive around the capital city? Why did they carry Kalashnikovs? Why are guns given out so easily? And why did these men feel justified taking the law into their own hands?The state has failed to provide a viable alternative in terms of economic and educational opportunities to those who resort to extremism. The madrassa system \u2013 spewing venom and hatred left, right and centre \u2013 is not monitored and the extremists are freely raising another generation like them. Or worse.Moreover, the state mollycoddles and divides them into \"good Taliban\" and \"bad Taliban\". The \"good\" ones are armed, funded, and taken care of. But now the knives are turning inwards.If there is one thing made abundantly clear by Taseer and Bhatti's murders it is this: the chickens have come home to roost.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Shehrbano Taseer: Salmaan Taseer and Shahbaz Bhatti's murders are a grim warning to those who dare to speak out against injustices."},{"date": "2011-02-15T07:00:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "As Hosni Mubarak reluctantly retired last Friday night, another revolt was reaching its climax in Pakistan. For four days the workers of Pakistan International Airlines (PIA), the national carrier, had been on strike. Some 25,000 passengers were stranded, including me.I was stuck in Quetta, a tense, paranoid city near the Afghan border where the security forces are engaged in a ruthless cat-and-mouse game with nationalist rebels; it is also a supposed refuge for the one-eyed Taliban leader Mullah Omar. As the skies emptied of planes, guests from my hotel fled Quetta by car, crossing the sprawling deserts, or chancing the rickety 22-hour train ride to Karachi. I stayed put.On TV the picture flipped from ecstatic crowds surging through Tahrir Square in Cairo, to Pakistani riot police baton-charging PIA workers at Karachi airport. The strike was over planned reforms. PIA is a bloated, sick elephant. It has 400 employees per aircraft \u2013 about three times the norm \u2013 and last year it asked the government to pay $1.7bn (\u00a31.06bn) in debt. But the unions objected to plans to rationalise the workforce, and demanded that managing director Aijaz Haroon resign. And so on Friday night, under immense pressure, he went, resigning at the same time as Mubarak fell in Egypt.As the screen filled with ecstatic revolutionaries surging through Tahrir Square, a note of envy sounded among Pakistanis on Twitter. Could the glorious revolution spread to their country? \"I\u00a0wish, wish, wish Pakistan could be next,\" wrote the author Fatima Bhutto.Pakistan certainly seems ripe for revolt. It is perpetually on a knife edge \u2013 extremists plot and explode bombs, senior politicians are assassinated, society seethes with discontent. A slim upper crust floats in a bubble of wealth and privilege \u2013 the local version of Hello! offers coverage of upper-class toddler parties \u2013 while the poor grind along under soaring food inflation and 12-hour power cuts. Regional tensions threaten to pull the country asunder. In Quetta, residents were shivering in their homes because the rebels had blown up the gas pipelines four times over the previous week.\"We're in a bad way,\" one mournful lawyer told me before I left, glancing over his shoulder to see if intelligence officials were evesdropping.Some analysts compare the mood to Iran in 1979, when a restive middle-class upended the American-backed Shah and opened the door to theocratic Islamic rule. Yet on the ground in Pakistan, the whiff of revolution is faint. For a start, the country is too fractured. Take Karachi, a sprawling megalopolis of 16 million people, about the size of Cairo. Control of the city is divided between a patchwork of political, sectarian and criminal gangs. All are heavily armed. Protests against Pervez Musharraf in the city four years ago pitted rival groups against each other, triggering a bloodbath.The bigger problem, perhaps, is that there is no dictator to overthrow. Pakistanis already have democracy, elections and a vigorous press. But among the educated classes, few want to engage with the political system, considering it dirty and corrupt. And so they focus their frustration on their president, Asif Ali Zardari, a fantastically unpopular figure. Locked into his fortified Islamabad palace, Zardari is portrayed by a hostile media as aloof and corrupt, a schemer and a shyster. Many people are prepared to believe the most lurid stories about him, including that he plotted the assassination of his wife, Benazir Bhutto, in 2007. Zardari-hating has become a virtual fetish among the chattering classes.Some of this is warranted \u2013 his government disastrously bungled the recent blasphemy furore, and is struggling to deal with the case of Raymond Davis, an American official who shot two people dead on a Lahore street. Corruption is certainly rife, although many of the wilder stories are almost certainly exaggerated. But the hard truth is that power in Pakistan resides inside the gleaming halls of the army headquarters, where liveried generals hold the keys to the country's nuclear weapons \u2013 more than 100, according to one recent count \u2013 and control policy with India, Afghanistan and America.And so a true revolution in Pakistan would see the army being ousted from power\u2013 except that would be tricky, because it isn't officially in charge.The real danger, however, may lie in the dark clouds gathering over the economy. Ccompanies such as PIA are sucking the Treasury dry; last week's strike demonstrated scant political will to get them into shape. On the revenue side, the rich refuse to pay tax \u2013 the tax-to-GDP ratio is a disastrously low 9% and many politicians pay just a few hundred pounds tax per year. To plug this hole, the government has resorted to printing money at an alarming pace. Few doubt it is unsustainable. Over tea in his office, a senior western diplomat told me the economy was his \"number one priority\".Economists say the bubble could burst in a matter of months \u2013 rocketing inflation, a crashing currency, capital flight. If that happens, trouble could stir on the streets, notwithstanding Pakistanis' amazing tolerance for adversity. But it's unlikely to have the same clean lines as the Egyptian revolt. And its consequences could be just as unpredictable.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pervez Musharraf", "World news"], "title": "Will revolution spread to Pakistan? | Declan Walsh"},{"date": "2011-01-04T12:24:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The governor of Pakistan's wealthiest province has been killed by one of his own bodyguards, apparently because he had spoken out against the country's controversial blasphemy laws.In the most high-profile political assassination since the murder of former prime minister Benazir Bhutto in December 2007, Punjab governor Salmaan Taseer was shot nine times at Kohsar market, an upmarket shopping area less than a mile from the presidential palace.The interior minister, Rahman Malik, said that the gunman had told police he had killed Taseer for criticising the country's blasphemy legislation.Taseer, who was close to President Asif Ali Zardari and an outspoken critic of militant groups, was pronounced dead at the nearby Poly Clinic hospital. He had recently courted the anger of Islamist extremists by defending a Christian woman condemned to death for blasphemy. Taseer called for the repeal of the \"disgraceful\" laws after Aasia Bibi was sentenced under the colonial-era law.\"He was the most courageous voice after Benazir Bhutto on the rights of women and religious minorities,\" said Farahnaz Ispahani, an aide to Zardari and friend of Taseer. \"God, we will miss him.\"Witnesses said a member of Taseer's security unit opened fire as the governor left his vehicle. Other police officials returned fire at the attacker who then surrendered. Five other people were wounded in crossfire.Early television pictures showed police officers swarming around a bloodstained street littered with bullet casings, with a lightly damaged vehicle parked nearby. \"The governor fell down and the man who fired at him threw down his gun and raised both hands,\" said the witness, Ali Imran.Taseer was believed to be meeting someone for a meal, Malik said. Other members of his security detail were being questioned, he said. The security for Taseer was provided by the Punjab government.\"We will see whether it was an individual act or someone had asked him [to do it],\" Malik said of the attacker.Taseer, a leading member of Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party, frequently used Twitter to get across his views.His death is likely to heighten the political instability triggered when one of the government's main allies pulled out of the ruling coalition at the weekend.Taseer lived in Lahore, the capital of Punjab province, but had a large official residence in Islamabad and was a frequent visitor.Minorities in Pakistan are routinely convicted in blasphemy cases on hearsay and scant evidence, with charges often brought to settle personal scores or unrelated disputes such as property ownership. The charge itself is often enough for vigilantes to take matters in their own hands and kill the accused.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Salmaan Taseer"], "title": "Pakistan attack kills Punjab governor"},{"date": "2011-05-13T23:01:21Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "If ever an opportunity presented itself for a civilian government to claw back powers it has ceded to an army whose tentacles extend into every part of life in Pakistan, yesterday was the day. The army, and its premier spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI), were facing an unprecedented assault on their competence after the US raid on Abbottabad. Even talk show hosts, the secular mullahs of Pakistan, turned on them.How could Osama bin Laden's presence go undetected for six years in a garrison town that is home to three regimental headquarters and a military academy? How could US helicopters grab their quarry from underneath their noses? Hours before the army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, was due to answer questions like these in a closed session of parliament, the Taliban put\u00a0down\u00a0a\u00a0third amendment for debate: How is it the military failed to protect its own recruits, 66 of whom were among over 80 who died in two suicide bombings in Charsadda, north of Peshawar?Asserting the primacy of civilian control over a failing military is, however, the last thing on the mind of President Asif Zardari. If his period of office has taught us anything, it is that there is a world of difference between strengthening the democratic project and strengthening a civilian government's hand, as one commentator has observed.If the summit of the government's ambition is to see out a full term, then a chastened army becomes the ideal partner. One pretends to govern while the other pretends to protect. But nor is that an answer either. Being the chief of Pakistan's army is a balancing act. He heads an empire that has simultaneously threatened to let the Chinese inspect the rotor parts of the stealth helicopter that crashed into Bin Laden's compound, and given the CIA access to Bin Laden's widows. Bigger trade-offs are in the works. Gen Kayani will continue to resist US pressure to go after three groups that the ISI still consider long-term assets \u2013 Mullah Omar, the Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba. To go after them would be to provoke civil war, the ISI pleads. But the price of pleading impotence may also be high: allowing back all those CIA agents who have just been forced to leave the country, and with them more US operations on sovereign soil.The bottom line is that Islamabad will not change its strategic posture. The irony of the US relationship with Pakistan is that it may not have to, if the military path currently being pursued in Afghanistan fails to blunt the Taliban's offensive. Two armies, one American the other Pakistani, both performing dysfunctionally in this part of the world, need each other.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: Marriage of inconvenience | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-13T23:01:21Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "If ever an opportunity presented itself for a civilian government to claw back powers it has ceded to an army whose tentacles extend into every part of life in Pakistan, yesterday was the day. The army, and its premier spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI), were facing an unprecedented assault on their competence after the US raid on Abbottabad. Even talk show hosts, the secular mullahs of Pakistan, turned on them.How could Osama bin Laden's presence go undetected for six years in a garrison town that is home to three regimental headquarters and a military academy? How could US helicopters grab their quarry from underneath their noses? Hours before the army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, was due to answer questions like these in a closed session of parliament, the Taliban put\u00a0down\u00a0a\u00a0third amendment for debate: How is it the military failed to protect its own recruits, 66 of whom were among over 80 who died in two suicide bombings in Charsadda, north of Peshawar?Asserting the primacy of civilian control over a failing military is, however, the last thing on the mind of President Asif Zardari. If his period of office has taught us anything, it is that there is a world of difference between strengthening the democratic project and strengthening a civilian government's hand, as one commentator has observed.If the summit of the government's ambition is to see out a full term, then a chastened army becomes the ideal partner. One pretends to govern while the other pretends to protect. But nor is that an answer either. Being the chief of Pakistan's army is a balancing act. He heads an empire that has simultaneously threatened to let the Chinese inspect the rotor parts of the stealth helicopter that crashed into Bin Laden's compound, and given the CIA access to Bin Laden's widows. Bigger trade-offs are in the works. Gen Kayani will continue to resist US pressure to go after three groups that the ISI still consider long-term assets \u2013 Mullah Omar, the Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba. To go after them would be to provoke civil war, the ISI pleads. But the price of pleading impotence may also be high: allowing back all those CIA agents who have just been forced to leave the country, and with them more US operations on sovereign soil.The bottom line is that Islamabad will not change its strategic posture. The irony of the US relationship with Pakistan is that it may not have to, if the military path currently being pursued in Afghanistan fails to blunt the Taliban's offensive. Two armies, one American the other Pakistani, both performing dysfunctionally in this part of the world, need each other.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: Marriage of inconvenience | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-16T23:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I am standing on a roof in the mountains of the Kalash valleys. Below me hundreds of men are screaming and shouting as two small wooden balls are hit up the slopes by opposing teams of players. Women in intricately designed, brightly coloured dresses are looking on, talking and laughing. One player draws back his long wooden club and hammers the ball onward. Cries of joy fill the air.\"What just happened?\" I ask the player. \"We cheated,\" he laughs. \"The ball was lost in the snow so I took a\u00a0ball from my pocket and hit that one. Don't tell the other team. If they knew, we would lose this point.\"The ball flies on up the four-mile-long course, over rivers and up banks. That night, the winning team will sacrifice an ox, paid for by the losers. Everyone will get drunk. It is winter and there is not much to do. The game is chikik gal.In February this year, the Taliban assassinated Pakistan's Christian minister for minorities, Shahbaz Bhatti. He was the only politician representing the non-Muslim populations of Pakistan. His smallest ward was the Kalash, a 3,000-strong animist tribe living in the mountains of the Hindu Kush, in Pakistan's wild northwest frontier. A persistent myth tells of their descent from members of an errant division of Alexander the Great's army, which ripped through the mountains of northern Pakistan more than 2,000 years ago.In Rudyard Kipling's time, the Kalash were known as the \"black Kafirs\" and their land was Kafiristan, the setting for his tale of insanity and idolatry, The Man Who Would be King. The \"red Kafirs\", their neighbours, the subjects of Kipling's story, were brutally converted at the end of the 19th century. They became Nuristanis, \"enlightened ones\", and their rugged mountain land is one of the centres of the war against the Taliban.The Kalash live in three valleys (Bumboret, Birir and Rumbur) by the Afghan border in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. In winter, flights to Chitral, the nearest town, are routinely and consistently cancelled without warning. My journey from Islamabad was by road, through Mardan and Dir up to the Lowari tunnel and then down the other side. In the winter, when the Lowari pass is blocked by snow, the tunnel is the only way of travelling to Chitral by road. Its construction began in 2005 and it is now open for a few hours every day. It is less a tunnel and more a 9km-long cave.But in spite of the constant sense of peril it evokes, the tunnel is changing Chitral and the Kalash valleys. Previously, getting to the nearest city, Peshawar, meant a trip through Afghanistan. Now the tunnel brings supplies from the rest of the country. With access comes fear. \"Extremists use the tunnel to come here,\" says Taj Udeen, a local police commander. \"We have to make sure we know who is coming to our district.\"They certainly knew we were coming. Tourism has dropped off steeply since 9/11 \u2013 in the 1990s thousands of people visited Chitral annually, now that figure is below 100 \u2013 and we were among few outsiders to visit the Kalash valleys in the past year. Desperate to make sure nothing happened to our four-strong team, 10 armed policemen accompanied us. We spent a month in the valleys. They never left our side.For centuries, the Kalash have been fighting to preserve their traditions. People are converted to Islam every year. \"Extremist Muslims prey on weak people and create internal divisions,\" Imran Kabir, a Kalasha polymath (he reveals that he is, variously, a butcher, teacher, writer and junkyard owner) tells me.A local teacher, Akbal Shah, recounts the story of his father, who worked as a frontier policeman and converted to Islam because he was the only Kalash man in an all-Muslim unit. \"He was not educated, so they said to him that if he didn't convert he wouldn't go to heaven. He ended up believing them because he didn't want to stand out. The Muslims are a big majority, they are pressing us everywhere.\" Deathbed conversions are common and people talk of being offered wives and money if they convert. When I interviewed one of the local imams, Nasir Abdul, at his newly built mosque, he spoke of the love he has for the Kalash people before going on to say that he \"hopes they will convert to Islam so that they can go to paradise\". He is a friendly man who does not pay people to convert, but his objective is the same: the end of the Kalasha religion.Not all Muslims in the area feel this way. One convert who everyone calls \"Mullah\" tells me: \"Everyone should be free to believe what they like.\" And while Muslims are not allowed to convert to the Kalash religion, men like Mullah participate in Kalash festivals and rituals in a way that makes you believe that if they could convert back, they would.Wali Khan, the Kalash headmaster of a primary school in Bumboret valley and a charismatic and popular figure, has worked tirelessly to improve the standards of schooling in the valleys (until the 1990s, there were no official schools). His family is typical in that two of his three brothers have converted to Islam (the one who hasn't is confusingly nicknamed Mujahideen). He tells me that for \"two years my brother was living like an imam. But then he got bored and now he is drinking and smoking and dancing!\" Drinking means the local moonshine, tara, which tastes like schnapps, or homemade wine, which tastes like sherry. Kalash dealers routinely and illegally sell both drinks to Muslims.Another source of tension is the aid that the Kalash receive from NGOs and the government. At the centre of this controversy is the Kalasha Dur \u2013 a museum, small hospital, library, hostel and school complex for the Kalash (which Muslims cannot attend), housed within an absurdly Greek-looking palace built by the NGO Greek Volunteers, with help from Greece's government body Hellenic Aid. Greek Volunteers's director, Athanasios Lerounis, a long-time champion of the Kalash and the man who raised the money to build the centre, assures me that though there are \"similarities to the Ionic style\", the building came from \"the local architecture\". The attempted olive growing that goes on is, however, more likely to be an ancient tradition of Athens.In 2009, a Taliban unit stole into the valleys at night and kidnapped Lerounis. They had been tipped off by locals sympathetic to their cause and came to the Kalasha Dur during a\u00a0night when only two security guards were posted. One guard fled while the other stood his ground and was killed. Lerounis was taken swiftly across the Afghan border to Nuristan. The Greek teacher's ransom, thought to be up to \u00a31m, was paid and he returned to Greece. The security services will not let him return to Pakistan because they believe his presence in the country is dangerous. Lerounis, who wants to come back to the valleys, tells me he does not want to talk about the kidnapping because doing so would endanger the Kalash people. Whatever they think of the Taliban's policies, the Kalash stress their neutrality: they are too vulnerable to court trouble.The kidnapping highlights the security risk presented by the lavish Greek building: in a small, rural community, it sticks out. Locals say that there is a Taliban plot to blow up the Kalasha Dur. The building's detractors say that the exclusion of Muslims from the school only adds to the resentment felt by those who feel that the Kalash get too much money from outsiders.Wali Khan used to work with Lerounis compiling a Kalasha alphabet, but left because he didn't like the division the Kalasha Dur had created. \"The Kalash and the Muslims have to get along; they have to live side by side,\" he says. \"So why make a school in which only one kind of person can be taught?\" Lerounis argues that the school was built in response to a need highlighted by the Kalash community: \"I asked them what they wanted and they told me they needed a school\u2026 There are many Muslim schools and many madrasas. The Kalash need this. There is a division because of their tradition, not because of our building.\"The Kalasha Dur's first-aid centre treats Muslims, and Greek Volunteers have also built Muslim schools and secured a clean-water supply that is used by everyone. Yet the suspicion remains that they do as much harm as good. Imran Kabir believes that Lerounis created a culture of dependence so that in the end people \"treated him like a God\". Instead of praying to their maker, Kabir told me, they would pray to Lerounis. Since he has been gone, the Kalash have started helping themselves again, something Lerounis would probably approve of.Nabaig (like Prince, he has no second name) is the first Kalash lawyer. He works in Chitral and, when he is in court, wears a suit and tie that makes you think of Reservoir Dogs. Back in the valleys, in his traditional clothes, he tells me that the United Nations Development Programme money that comes to the valleys \"goes in the pockets of the politicians and higher personalities\". The same is said of the international money that came to the country to help relieve flooding in 2010.\"None of the money came to us,\" says Nabaig, who points out that food is now twice the price as a result.Almost all accounts of the Kalash fixate on the tribe's mythological descent from Alexander the Great. The romance of Alexander's tribe is a key part of Kalash tourism, although \"they did a DNA test and they found no connection\" is a\u00a0familiar refrain here. Lerounis calls the area an \"open museum\"; the valleys' reputation as a Garden of Eden, a lost land of innocent people, meant that a\u00a0summer stop to see the Kalash used to be an adventurous part of the hippie trail. But another form of tourism has developed: young Muslim men from the south, deprived of contact with women their own age, come here to chat up Kalash girls and watch them dance.The government has a confused relationship with the Kalash. Wali Khan says it \"protects the Kalash people very well now because we are a unique culture\". But there is also worry that this kind of cultural tourism can be exploitative. Abdul Sattar, a village elder who has converted to Islam, tells me that \"before, when I was Kalash, I was very happy. But the government and people from the rest of Pakistan were coming here and making us dance and perform. I became a Muslim because I couldn't enjoy performing for outsiders.\"The government's press office in Islamabad sent out a string of mixed messages, telling me the trip was \"very dangerous\" yet repeatedly talking about how wonderful the Kalash were and how thrilled the government was to see journalists coming to the country to cover something other than the war with the Taliban. The constitution protects minorities and the law safeguards the customs of the Kalash. This is how Nabaig wins most of his cases, which involve Kalash alcohol and drug traffickers and disputes between Islamic and Kalash property laws. Still, the lawyer remains unconvinced by the authorities. \"I am worried about what is happening because we are isolated. We are in the minority. We are worried that our traditions won't survive.\"This survival is being safeguarded in interesting ways. There has been a concerted effort in recent years to reproduce as much as possible in order to bolster numbers. That way, if a couple of the children end up being converted, the pain will be less sharp. And, in the end, it is this spirit that will see the Kalash through. Free-minded and intensely aware of their \"unique culture\" they appear to be getting stronger rather than weaker. New roads and new technology often kill cultures such as theirs but the opposite seems to be true.That they have had problems moving from a barter economy to a\u00a0monetary one cannot be denied and that their traditional dependence on goats is becoming less valuable is also true, but the Kalash are using their increased contact with the outside world to educate others. Their language has, for the first time, been put into a written form (they use the English alphabet). Nabaig, who is 29, says that his generation is \"very keen to be Kalash, to preserve our culture. With trade we are gaining facilities. We are feeding our families\". One Kalash teenager told me his culture \"was over\". Almost all his friends contradicted him. Those who go to the big cities to work want to return to the valleys. One of the village kasis (\"guardians of knowledge\") told me that now \"education is very good. When I was younger there were no schools, no roads and no Jeeps. We had no clothes. We had no shoes. Now it is better.\" The Kalash are learning about their culture in order to preserve it. As we look out over the valley and up to Afghanistan, Imran Kabir looks up and says: \"The future is bright. The dark ages are gone.\"Wild Frontiers (wildfrontiers.co.uk) is running a 16-day adventure to the Hindu Kush spring festival, departing 7 May and costing \u00a32,090 land only. Eithad Airways (etihadairways.com) flies London to Islamabad from \u00a3591. The FCO advises against all travel to the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and much of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa", "tags": ["Pakistan holidays", "Taliban", "Rudyard Kipling", "Afghanistan holidays", "Islam", "Travel"], "title": "Culture Kalash in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-13T23:01:21Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "If ever an opportunity presented itself for a civilian government to claw back powers it has ceded to an army whose tentacles extend into every part of life in Pakistan, yesterday was the day. The army, and its premier spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI), were facing an unprecedented assault on their competence after the US raid on Abbottabad. Even talk show hosts, the secular mullahs of Pakistan, turned on them.How could Osama bin Laden's presence go undetected for six years in a garrison town that is home to three regimental headquarters and a military academy? How could US helicopters grab their quarry from underneath their noses? Hours before the army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, was due to answer questions like these in a closed session of parliament, the Taliban put\u00a0down\u00a0a\u00a0third amendment for debate: How is it the military failed to protect its own recruits, 66 of whom were among over 80 who died in two suicide bombings in Charsadda, north of Peshawar?Asserting the primacy of civilian control over a failing military is, however, the last thing on the mind of President Asif Zardari. If his period of office has taught us anything, it is that there is a world of difference between strengthening the democratic project and strengthening a civilian government's hand, as one commentator has observed.If the summit of the government's ambition is to see out a full term, then a chastened army becomes the ideal partner. One pretends to govern while the other pretends to protect. But nor is that an answer either. Being the chief of Pakistan's army is a balancing act. He heads an empire that has simultaneously threatened to let the Chinese inspect the rotor parts of the stealth helicopter that crashed into Bin Laden's compound, and given the CIA access to Bin Laden's widows. Bigger trade-offs are in the works. Gen Kayani will continue to resist US pressure to go after three groups that the ISI still consider long-term assets \u2013 Mullah Omar, the Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba. To go after them would be to provoke civil war, the ISI pleads. But the price of pleading impotence may also be high: allowing back all those CIA agents who have just been forced to leave the country, and with them more US operations on sovereign soil.The bottom line is that Islamabad will not change its strategic posture. The irony of the US relationship with Pakistan is that it may not have to, if the military path currently being pursued in Afghanistan fails to blunt the Taliban's offensive. Two armies, one American the other Pakistani, both performing dysfunctionally in this part of the world, need each other.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: Marriage of inconvenience | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-16T23:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I am standing on a roof in the mountains of the Kalash valleys. Below me hundreds of men are screaming and shouting as two small wooden balls are hit up the slopes by opposing teams of players. Women in intricately designed, brightly coloured dresses are looking on, talking and laughing. One player draws back his long wooden club and hammers the ball onward. Cries of joy fill the air.\"What just happened?\" I ask the player. \"We cheated,\" he laughs. \"The ball was lost in the snow so I took a\u00a0ball from my pocket and hit that one. Don't tell the other team. If they knew, we would lose this point.\"The ball flies on up the four-mile-long course, over rivers and up banks. That night, the winning team will sacrifice an ox, paid for by the losers. Everyone will get drunk. It is winter and there is not much to do. The game is chikik gal.In February this year, the Taliban assassinated Pakistan's Christian minister for minorities, Shahbaz Bhatti. He was the only politician representing the non-Muslim populations of Pakistan. His smallest ward was the Kalash, a 3,000-strong animist tribe living in the mountains of the Hindu Kush, in Pakistan's wild northwest frontier. A persistent myth tells of their descent from members of an errant division of Alexander the Great's army, which ripped through the mountains of northern Pakistan more than 2,000 years ago.In Rudyard Kipling's time, the Kalash were known as the \"black Kafirs\" and their land was Kafiristan, the setting for his tale of insanity and idolatry, The Man Who Would be King. The \"red Kafirs\", their neighbours, the subjects of Kipling's story, were brutally converted at the end of the 19th century. They became Nuristanis, \"enlightened ones\", and their rugged mountain land is one of the centres of the war against the Taliban.The Kalash live in three valleys (Bumboret, Birir and Rumbur) by the Afghan border in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. In winter, flights to Chitral, the nearest town, are routinely and consistently cancelled without warning. My journey from Islamabad was by road, through Mardan and Dir up to the Lowari tunnel and then down the other side. In the winter, when the Lowari pass is blocked by snow, the tunnel is the only way of travelling to Chitral by road. Its construction began in 2005 and it is now open for a few hours every day. It is less a tunnel and more a 9km-long cave.But in spite of the constant sense of peril it evokes, the tunnel is changing Chitral and the Kalash valleys. Previously, getting to the nearest city, Peshawar, meant a trip through Afghanistan. Now the tunnel brings supplies from the rest of the country. With access comes fear. \"Extremists use the tunnel to come here,\" says Taj Udeen, a local police commander. \"We have to make sure we know who is coming to our district.\"They certainly knew we were coming. Tourism has dropped off steeply since 9/11 \u2013 in the 1990s thousands of people visited Chitral annually, now that figure is below 100 \u2013 and we were among few outsiders to visit the Kalash valleys in the past year. Desperate to make sure nothing happened to our four-strong team, 10 armed policemen accompanied us. We spent a month in the valleys. They never left our side.For centuries, the Kalash have been fighting to preserve their traditions. People are converted to Islam every year. \"Extremist Muslims prey on weak people and create internal divisions,\" Imran Kabir, a Kalasha polymath (he reveals that he is, variously, a butcher, teacher, writer and junkyard owner) tells me.A local teacher, Akbal Shah, recounts the story of his father, who worked as a frontier policeman and converted to Islam because he was the only Kalash man in an all-Muslim unit. \"He was not educated, so they said to him that if he didn't convert he wouldn't go to heaven. He ended up believing them because he didn't want to stand out. The Muslims are a big majority, they are pressing us everywhere.\" Deathbed conversions are common and people talk of being offered wives and money if they convert. When I interviewed one of the local imams, Nasir Abdul, at his newly built mosque, he spoke of the love he has for the Kalash people before going on to say that he \"hopes they will convert to Islam so that they can go to paradise\". He is a friendly man who does not pay people to convert, but his objective is the same: the end of the Kalasha religion.Not all Muslims in the area feel this way. One convert who everyone calls \"Mullah\" tells me: \"Everyone should be free to believe what they like.\" And while Muslims are not allowed to convert to the Kalash religion, men like Mullah participate in Kalash festivals and rituals in a way that makes you believe that if they could convert back, they would.Wali Khan, the Kalash headmaster of a primary school in Bumboret valley and a charismatic and popular figure, has worked tirelessly to improve the standards of schooling in the valleys (until the 1990s, there were no official schools). His family is typical in that two of his three brothers have converted to Islam (the one who hasn't is confusingly nicknamed Mujahideen). He tells me that for \"two years my brother was living like an imam. But then he got bored and now he is drinking and smoking and dancing!\" Drinking means the local moonshine, tara, which tastes like schnapps, or homemade wine, which tastes like sherry. Kalash dealers routinely and illegally sell both drinks to Muslims.Another source of tension is the aid that the Kalash receive from NGOs and the government. At the centre of this controversy is the Kalasha Dur \u2013 a museum, small hospital, library, hostel and school complex for the Kalash (which Muslims cannot attend), housed within an absurdly Greek-looking palace built by the NGO Greek Volunteers, with help from Greece's government body Hellenic Aid. Greek Volunteers's director, Athanasios Lerounis, a long-time champion of the Kalash and the man who raised the money to build the centre, assures me that though there are \"similarities to the Ionic style\", the building came from \"the local architecture\". The attempted olive growing that goes on is, however, more likely to be an ancient tradition of Athens.In 2009, a Taliban unit stole into the valleys at night and kidnapped Lerounis. They had been tipped off by locals sympathetic to their cause and came to the Kalasha Dur during a\u00a0night when only two security guards were posted. One guard fled while the other stood his ground and was killed. Lerounis was taken swiftly across the Afghan border to Nuristan. The Greek teacher's ransom, thought to be up to \u00a31m, was paid and he returned to Greece. The security services will not let him return to Pakistan because they believe his presence in the country is dangerous. Lerounis, who wants to come back to the valleys, tells me he does not want to talk about the kidnapping because doing so would endanger the Kalash people. Whatever they think of the Taliban's policies, the Kalash stress their neutrality: they are too vulnerable to court trouble.The kidnapping highlights the security risk presented by the lavish Greek building: in a small, rural community, it sticks out. Locals say that there is a Taliban plot to blow up the Kalasha Dur. The building's detractors say that the exclusion of Muslims from the school only adds to the resentment felt by those who feel that the Kalash get too much money from outsiders.Wali Khan used to work with Lerounis compiling a Kalasha alphabet, but left because he didn't like the division the Kalasha Dur had created. \"The Kalash and the Muslims have to get along; they have to live side by side,\" he says. \"So why make a school in which only one kind of person can be taught?\" Lerounis argues that the school was built in response to a need highlighted by the Kalash community: \"I asked them what they wanted and they told me they needed a school\u2026 There are many Muslim schools and many madrasas. The Kalash need this. There is a division because of their tradition, not because of our building.\"The Kalasha Dur's first-aid centre treats Muslims, and Greek Volunteers have also built Muslim schools and secured a clean-water supply that is used by everyone. Yet the suspicion remains that they do as much harm as good. Imran Kabir believes that Lerounis created a culture of dependence so that in the end people \"treated him like a God\". Instead of praying to their maker, Kabir told me, they would pray to Lerounis. Since he has been gone, the Kalash have started helping themselves again, something Lerounis would probably approve of.Nabaig (like Prince, he has no second name) is the first Kalash lawyer. He works in Chitral and, when he is in court, wears a suit and tie that makes you think of Reservoir Dogs. Back in the valleys, in his traditional clothes, he tells me that the United Nations Development Programme money that comes to the valleys \"goes in the pockets of the politicians and higher personalities\". The same is said of the international money that came to the country to help relieve flooding in 2010.\"None of the money came to us,\" says Nabaig, who points out that food is now twice the price as a result.Almost all accounts of the Kalash fixate on the tribe's mythological descent from Alexander the Great. The romance of Alexander's tribe is a key part of Kalash tourism, although \"they did a DNA test and they found no connection\" is a\u00a0familiar refrain here. Lerounis calls the area an \"open museum\"; the valleys' reputation as a Garden of Eden, a lost land of innocent people, meant that a\u00a0summer stop to see the Kalash used to be an adventurous part of the hippie trail. But another form of tourism has developed: young Muslim men from the south, deprived of contact with women their own age, come here to chat up Kalash girls and watch them dance.The government has a confused relationship with the Kalash. Wali Khan says it \"protects the Kalash people very well now because we are a unique culture\". But there is also worry that this kind of cultural tourism can be exploitative. Abdul Sattar, a village elder who has converted to Islam, tells me that \"before, when I was Kalash, I was very happy. But the government and people from the rest of Pakistan were coming here and making us dance and perform. I became a Muslim because I couldn't enjoy performing for outsiders.\"The government's press office in Islamabad sent out a string of mixed messages, telling me the trip was \"very dangerous\" yet repeatedly talking about how wonderful the Kalash were and how thrilled the government was to see journalists coming to the country to cover something other than the war with the Taliban. The constitution protects minorities and the law safeguards the customs of the Kalash. This is how Nabaig wins most of his cases, which involve Kalash alcohol and drug traffickers and disputes between Islamic and Kalash property laws. Still, the lawyer remains unconvinced by the authorities. \"I am worried about what is happening because we are isolated. We are in the minority. We are worried that our traditions won't survive.\"This survival is being safeguarded in interesting ways. There has been a concerted effort in recent years to reproduce as much as possible in order to bolster numbers. That way, if a couple of the children end up being converted, the pain will be less sharp. And, in the end, it is this spirit that will see the Kalash through. Free-minded and intensely aware of their \"unique culture\" they appear to be getting stronger rather than weaker. New roads and new technology often kill cultures such as theirs but the opposite seems to be true.That they have had problems moving from a barter economy to a\u00a0monetary one cannot be denied and that their traditional dependence on goats is becoming less valuable is also true, but the Kalash are using their increased contact with the outside world to educate others. Their language has, for the first time, been put into a written form (they use the English alphabet). Nabaig, who is 29, says that his generation is \"very keen to be Kalash, to preserve our culture. With trade we are gaining facilities. We are feeding our families\". One Kalash teenager told me his culture \"was over\". Almost all his friends contradicted him. Those who go to the big cities to work want to return to the valleys. One of the village kasis (\"guardians of knowledge\") told me that now \"education is very good. When I was younger there were no schools, no roads and no Jeeps. We had no clothes. We had no shoes. Now it is better.\" The Kalash are learning about their culture in order to preserve it. As we look out over the valley and up to Afghanistan, Imran Kabir looks up and says: \"The future is bright. The dark ages are gone.\"Wild Frontiers (wildfrontiers.co.uk) is running a 16-day adventure to the Hindu Kush spring festival, departing 7 May and costing \u00a32,090 land only. Eithad Airways (etihadairways.com) flies London to Islamabad from \u00a3591. The FCO advises against all travel to the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and much of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa", "tags": ["Pakistan holidays", "Taliban", "Rudyard Kipling", "Afghanistan holidays", "Islam", "Travel"], "title": "Culture Kalash in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-06-11T22:40:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two explosions ripped through a busy market in Pakistan's volatile northwestern city of Peshawar, killing at least 34 people and injuring nearly\u00a0100. Police said that the first blast was relatively small and drew rescue workers to the site before a larger explosion rocked the market area a few minutes later causing scores of casualties.Jamal Khan, a 22-year-old student who was rushing to the scene as the second blast occurred, said: \"The explosion was so huge I will never forget it all my life. It was deafening, and then there was a cloud of dust and smoke. When the dust settled, I saw people crying for help and body parts scattered everywhere.\"No group claimed immediate responsibility for the bombing, but the Pakistani Taliban have pledged to carry out attacks in retaliation for the American special forces raid that killed Osama bin Laden in an army town outside Islamabad last month.Initial reports indicated the second blast in Peshawar was caused by explosives placed in a vehicle and detonated by remote control, said Dost Mohammed, a senior local police official. The source of the first explosion was unknown.The attack took place across the street from the offices of the top political agent to Khyber, part of Pakistan's volatile tribal region, and a short distance from army housing units. Peshawar borders the tribal region and has been repeatedly hit by bombings over the past few years.Doctor Mohammed Farooq said many of the victims were so badly burned they were difficult to identify and that the dead included at least one journalist. Four more journalists and at least 10 police officers were also injured, he said.The attack took place as the CIA director, Leon Panetta, and the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, visited the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, 95 miles to the east, to speak separately with senior Pakistani officials about sharing intelligence.Panetta's meetings were intended to focus on the size and scope of future American intelligence activities. The Bin Laden operation plunged an already strained relationship between the CIA and Pakistan's main intelligence agency, the ISI, to a new low. It has also threatened to undermine the co-operation between the two countries that is pivotal to the continued fight against al-Qaida and Taliban militants battling Nato forces in Afghanistan.In an attempt to rebuild their relationship, Washington and Islamabad have agreed to form a joint intelligence team to track down terrorists inside Pakistan, drawing in part from the records taken from Bin Laden's lair during the raid.\"We both want stability in Afghanistan and in Pakistan,\" said the Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza, Gilani yesterday. \"Our only aim is to support the peace process, which is Afghan led.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: fatal explosions in Peshawar"},{"date": "2011-05-13T23:01:21Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "If ever an opportunity presented itself for a civilian government to claw back powers it has ceded to an army whose tentacles extend into every part of life in Pakistan, yesterday was the day. The army, and its premier spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI), were facing an unprecedented assault on their competence after the US raid on Abbottabad. Even talk show hosts, the secular mullahs of Pakistan, turned on them.How could Osama bin Laden's presence go undetected for six years in a garrison town that is home to three regimental headquarters and a military academy? How could US helicopters grab their quarry from underneath their noses? Hours before the army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, was due to answer questions like these in a closed session of parliament, the Taliban put\u00a0down\u00a0a\u00a0third amendment for debate: How is it the military failed to protect its own recruits, 66 of whom were among over 80 who died in two suicide bombings in Charsadda, north of Peshawar?Asserting the primacy of civilian control over a failing military is, however, the last thing on the mind of President Asif Zardari. If his period of office has taught us anything, it is that there is a world of difference between strengthening the democratic project and strengthening a civilian government's hand, as one commentator has observed.If the summit of the government's ambition is to see out a full term, then a chastened army becomes the ideal partner. One pretends to govern while the other pretends to protect. But nor is that an answer either. Being the chief of Pakistan's army is a balancing act. He heads an empire that has simultaneously threatened to let the Chinese inspect the rotor parts of the stealth helicopter that crashed into Bin Laden's compound, and given the CIA access to Bin Laden's widows. Bigger trade-offs are in the works. Gen Kayani will continue to resist US pressure to go after three groups that the ISI still consider long-term assets \u2013 Mullah Omar, the Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba. To go after them would be to provoke civil war, the ISI pleads. But the price of pleading impotence may also be high: allowing back all those CIA agents who have just been forced to leave the country, and with them more US operations on sovereign soil.The bottom line is that Islamabad will not change its strategic posture. The irony of the US relationship with Pakistan is that it may not have to, if the military path currently being pursued in Afghanistan fails to blunt the Taliban's offensive. Two armies, one American the other Pakistani, both performing dysfunctionally in this part of the world, need each other.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: Marriage of inconvenience | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-16T23:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I am standing on a roof in the mountains of the Kalash valleys. Below me hundreds of men are screaming and shouting as two small wooden balls are hit up the slopes by opposing teams of players. Women in intricately designed, brightly coloured dresses are looking on, talking and laughing. One player draws back his long wooden club and hammers the ball onward. Cries of joy fill the air.\"What just happened?\" I ask the player. \"We cheated,\" he laughs. \"The ball was lost in the snow so I took a\u00a0ball from my pocket and hit that one. Don't tell the other team. If they knew, we would lose this point.\"The ball flies on up the four-mile-long course, over rivers and up banks. That night, the winning team will sacrifice an ox, paid for by the losers. Everyone will get drunk. It is winter and there is not much to do. The game is chikik gal.In February this year, the Taliban assassinated Pakistan's Christian minister for minorities, Shahbaz Bhatti. He was the only politician representing the non-Muslim populations of Pakistan. His smallest ward was the Kalash, a 3,000-strong animist tribe living in the mountains of the Hindu Kush, in Pakistan's wild northwest frontier. A persistent myth tells of their descent from members of an errant division of Alexander the Great's army, which ripped through the mountains of northern Pakistan more than 2,000 years ago.In Rudyard Kipling's time, the Kalash were known as the \"black Kafirs\" and their land was Kafiristan, the setting for his tale of insanity and idolatry, The Man Who Would be King. The \"red Kafirs\", their neighbours, the subjects of Kipling's story, were brutally converted at the end of the 19th century. They became Nuristanis, \"enlightened ones\", and their rugged mountain land is one of the centres of the war against the Taliban.The Kalash live in three valleys (Bumboret, Birir and Rumbur) by the Afghan border in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. In winter, flights to Chitral, the nearest town, are routinely and consistently cancelled without warning. My journey from Islamabad was by road, through Mardan and Dir up to the Lowari tunnel and then down the other side. In the winter, when the Lowari pass is blocked by snow, the tunnel is the only way of travelling to Chitral by road. Its construction began in 2005 and it is now open for a few hours every day. It is less a tunnel and more a 9km-long cave.But in spite of the constant sense of peril it evokes, the tunnel is changing Chitral and the Kalash valleys. Previously, getting to the nearest city, Peshawar, meant a trip through Afghanistan. Now the tunnel brings supplies from the rest of the country. With access comes fear. \"Extremists use the tunnel to come here,\" says Taj Udeen, a local police commander. \"We have to make sure we know who is coming to our district.\"They certainly knew we were coming. Tourism has dropped off steeply since 9/11 \u2013 in the 1990s thousands of people visited Chitral annually, now that figure is below 100 \u2013 and we were among few outsiders to visit the Kalash valleys in the past year. Desperate to make sure nothing happened to our four-strong team, 10 armed policemen accompanied us. We spent a month in the valleys. They never left our side.For centuries, the Kalash have been fighting to preserve their traditions. People are converted to Islam every year. \"Extremist Muslims prey on weak people and create internal divisions,\" Imran Kabir, a Kalasha polymath (he reveals that he is, variously, a butcher, teacher, writer and junkyard owner) tells me.A local teacher, Akbal Shah, recounts the story of his father, who worked as a frontier policeman and converted to Islam because he was the only Kalash man in an all-Muslim unit. \"He was not educated, so they said to him that if he didn't convert he wouldn't go to heaven. He ended up believing them because he didn't want to stand out. The Muslims are a big majority, they are pressing us everywhere.\" Deathbed conversions are common and people talk of being offered wives and money if they convert. When I interviewed one of the local imams, Nasir Abdul, at his newly built mosque, he spoke of the love he has for the Kalash people before going on to say that he \"hopes they will convert to Islam so that they can go to paradise\". He is a friendly man who does not pay people to convert, but his objective is the same: the end of the Kalasha religion.Not all Muslims in the area feel this way. One convert who everyone calls \"Mullah\" tells me: \"Everyone should be free to believe what they like.\" And while Muslims are not allowed to convert to the Kalash religion, men like Mullah participate in Kalash festivals and rituals in a way that makes you believe that if they could convert back, they would.Wali Khan, the Kalash headmaster of a primary school in Bumboret valley and a charismatic and popular figure, has worked tirelessly to improve the standards of schooling in the valleys (until the 1990s, there were no official schools). His family is typical in that two of his three brothers have converted to Islam (the one who hasn't is confusingly nicknamed Mujahideen). He tells me that for \"two years my brother was living like an imam. But then he got bored and now he is drinking and smoking and dancing!\" Drinking means the local moonshine, tara, which tastes like schnapps, or homemade wine, which tastes like sherry. Kalash dealers routinely and illegally sell both drinks to Muslims.Another source of tension is the aid that the Kalash receive from NGOs and the government. At the centre of this controversy is the Kalasha Dur \u2013 a museum, small hospital, library, hostel and school complex for the Kalash (which Muslims cannot attend), housed within an absurdly Greek-looking palace built by the NGO Greek Volunteers, with help from Greece's government body Hellenic Aid. Greek Volunteers's director, Athanasios Lerounis, a long-time champion of the Kalash and the man who raised the money to build the centre, assures me that though there are \"similarities to the Ionic style\", the building came from \"the local architecture\". The attempted olive growing that goes on is, however, more likely to be an ancient tradition of Athens.In 2009, a Taliban unit stole into the valleys at night and kidnapped Lerounis. They had been tipped off by locals sympathetic to their cause and came to the Kalasha Dur during a\u00a0night when only two security guards were posted. One guard fled while the other stood his ground and was killed. Lerounis was taken swiftly across the Afghan border to Nuristan. The Greek teacher's ransom, thought to be up to \u00a31m, was paid and he returned to Greece. The security services will not let him return to Pakistan because they believe his presence in the country is dangerous. Lerounis, who wants to come back to the valleys, tells me he does not want to talk about the kidnapping because doing so would endanger the Kalash people. Whatever they think of the Taliban's policies, the Kalash stress their neutrality: they are too vulnerable to court trouble.The kidnapping highlights the security risk presented by the lavish Greek building: in a small, rural community, it sticks out. Locals say that there is a Taliban plot to blow up the Kalasha Dur. The building's detractors say that the exclusion of Muslims from the school only adds to the resentment felt by those who feel that the Kalash get too much money from outsiders.Wali Khan used to work with Lerounis compiling a Kalasha alphabet, but left because he didn't like the division the Kalasha Dur had created. \"The Kalash and the Muslims have to get along; they have to live side by side,\" he says. \"So why make a school in which only one kind of person can be taught?\" Lerounis argues that the school was built in response to a need highlighted by the Kalash community: \"I asked them what they wanted and they told me they needed a school\u2026 There are many Muslim schools and many madrasas. The Kalash need this. There is a division because of their tradition, not because of our building.\"The Kalasha Dur's first-aid centre treats Muslims, and Greek Volunteers have also built Muslim schools and secured a clean-water supply that is used by everyone. Yet the suspicion remains that they do as much harm as good. Imran Kabir believes that Lerounis created a culture of dependence so that in the end people \"treated him like a God\". Instead of praying to their maker, Kabir told me, they would pray to Lerounis. Since he has been gone, the Kalash have started helping themselves again, something Lerounis would probably approve of.Nabaig (like Prince, he has no second name) is the first Kalash lawyer. He works in Chitral and, when he is in court, wears a suit and tie that makes you think of Reservoir Dogs. Back in the valleys, in his traditional clothes, he tells me that the United Nations Development Programme money that comes to the valleys \"goes in the pockets of the politicians and higher personalities\". The same is said of the international money that came to the country to help relieve flooding in 2010.\"None of the money came to us,\" says Nabaig, who points out that food is now twice the price as a result.Almost all accounts of the Kalash fixate on the tribe's mythological descent from Alexander the Great. The romance of Alexander's tribe is a key part of Kalash tourism, although \"they did a DNA test and they found no connection\" is a\u00a0familiar refrain here. Lerounis calls the area an \"open museum\"; the valleys' reputation as a Garden of Eden, a lost land of innocent people, meant that a\u00a0summer stop to see the Kalash used to be an adventurous part of the hippie trail. But another form of tourism has developed: young Muslim men from the south, deprived of contact with women their own age, come here to chat up Kalash girls and watch them dance.The government has a confused relationship with the Kalash. Wali Khan says it \"protects the Kalash people very well now because we are a unique culture\". But there is also worry that this kind of cultural tourism can be exploitative. Abdul Sattar, a village elder who has converted to Islam, tells me that \"before, when I was Kalash, I was very happy. But the government and people from the rest of Pakistan were coming here and making us dance and perform. I became a Muslim because I couldn't enjoy performing for outsiders.\"The government's press office in Islamabad sent out a string of mixed messages, telling me the trip was \"very dangerous\" yet repeatedly talking about how wonderful the Kalash were and how thrilled the government was to see journalists coming to the country to cover something other than the war with the Taliban. The constitution protects minorities and the law safeguards the customs of the Kalash. This is how Nabaig wins most of his cases, which involve Kalash alcohol and drug traffickers and disputes between Islamic and Kalash property laws. Still, the lawyer remains unconvinced by the authorities. \"I am worried about what is happening because we are isolated. We are in the minority. We are worried that our traditions won't survive.\"This survival is being safeguarded in interesting ways. There has been a concerted effort in recent years to reproduce as much as possible in order to bolster numbers. That way, if a couple of the children end up being converted, the pain will be less sharp. And, in the end, it is this spirit that will see the Kalash through. Free-minded and intensely aware of their \"unique culture\" they appear to be getting stronger rather than weaker. New roads and new technology often kill cultures such as theirs but the opposite seems to be true.That they have had problems moving from a barter economy to a\u00a0monetary one cannot be denied and that their traditional dependence on goats is becoming less valuable is also true, but the Kalash are using their increased contact with the outside world to educate others. Their language has, for the first time, been put into a written form (they use the English alphabet). Nabaig, who is 29, says that his generation is \"very keen to be Kalash, to preserve our culture. With trade we are gaining facilities. We are feeding our families\". One Kalash teenager told me his culture \"was over\". Almost all his friends contradicted him. Those who go to the big cities to work want to return to the valleys. One of the village kasis (\"guardians of knowledge\") told me that now \"education is very good. When I was younger there were no schools, no roads and no Jeeps. We had no clothes. We had no shoes. Now it is better.\" The Kalash are learning about their culture in order to preserve it. As we look out over the valley and up to Afghanistan, Imran Kabir looks up and says: \"The future is bright. The dark ages are gone.\"Wild Frontiers (wildfrontiers.co.uk) is running a 16-day adventure to the Hindu Kush spring festival, departing 7 May and costing \u00a32,090 land only. Eithad Airways (etihadairways.com) flies London to Islamabad from \u00a3591. The FCO advises against all travel to the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and much of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa", "tags": ["Pakistan holidays", "Taliban", "Rudyard Kipling", "Afghanistan holidays", "Islam", "Travel"], "title": "Culture Kalash in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-06-11T22:40:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two explosions ripped through a busy market in Pakistan's volatile northwestern city of Peshawar, killing at least 34 people and injuring nearly\u00a0100. Police said that the first blast was relatively small and drew rescue workers to the site before a larger explosion rocked the market area a few minutes later causing scores of casualties.Jamal Khan, a 22-year-old student who was rushing to the scene as the second blast occurred, said: \"The explosion was so huge I will never forget it all my life. It was deafening, and then there was a cloud of dust and smoke. When the dust settled, I saw people crying for help and body parts scattered everywhere.\"No group claimed immediate responsibility for the bombing, but the Pakistani Taliban have pledged to carry out attacks in retaliation for the American special forces raid that killed Osama bin Laden in an army town outside Islamabad last month.Initial reports indicated the second blast in Peshawar was caused by explosives placed in a vehicle and detonated by remote control, said Dost Mohammed, a senior local police official. The source of the first explosion was unknown.The attack took place across the street from the offices of the top political agent to Khyber, part of Pakistan's volatile tribal region, and a short distance from army housing units. Peshawar borders the tribal region and has been repeatedly hit by bombings over the past few years.Doctor Mohammed Farooq said many of the victims were so badly burned they were difficult to identify and that the dead included at least one journalist. Four more journalists and at least 10 police officers were also injured, he said.The attack took place as the CIA director, Leon Panetta, and the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, visited the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, 95 miles to the east, to speak separately with senior Pakistani officials about sharing intelligence.Panetta's meetings were intended to focus on the size and scope of future American intelligence activities. The Bin Laden operation plunged an already strained relationship between the CIA and Pakistan's main intelligence agency, the ISI, to a new low. It has also threatened to undermine the co-operation between the two countries that is pivotal to the continued fight against al-Qaida and Taliban militants battling Nato forces in Afghanistan.In an attempt to rebuild their relationship, Washington and Islamabad have agreed to form a joint intelligence team to track down terrorists inside Pakistan, drawing in part from the records taken from Bin Laden's lair during the raid.\"We both want stability in Afghanistan and in Pakistan,\" said the Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza, Gilani yesterday. \"Our only aim is to support the peace process, which is Afghan led.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: fatal explosions in Peshawar"},{"date": "2011-06-30T14:37:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has stopped US drone flights from a remote airbase in the western province of Balochistan and ordered US personnel to vacate it, the defence minister has said.\"We have told them to leave the Shamsi airbase,\" Chaudhry Ahmed Mukhtar said on Wednesday night, adding that US personnel had already started to shift equipment from the base.A US embassy spokesman declined to comment, referring queries to Washington.Shamsi is located in a remote valley 350 miles south-west of Waziristan, where most of the CIA-directed Predator and Reaper drone strikes against al-Qaida and Taliban targets take place.The closure of the base is a blow to a covert programme that has killed up to 2,500 people since its inception seven years ago and forms a cornerstone of President Barack Obama's strategy to flush al-Qaida from its Pakistani havens.The US insists it will press ahead with the strikes. In unusually direct comments, Obama's counter-terrorism adviser John Brennan said on Wednesday that the US would continue to \"deliver precise and overwhelming force against al-Qaida\" in the tribal areas.The attacks are likely to continue from CIA bases in Afghanistan \u2013 the latest took place on 20 June in Kurram tribal agency. A senior Pakistani military official said the US had not used Shamsi for \"several months\" and was already flying drones across the border.Senior civilian officials said they closed Shamsi in retaliation for an American reduction of coalition support funds, a multibillion-dollar subsidy for Pakistani military operations. The defence minister said US forces had already vacated Ghazi airbase, 40 miles north-west of Islamabad.A US official in Pakistan accused the government of engaging in \"diplomacy by headline\" but refused to comment further.The spat marks another low point in Pakistan-US relations after the raid to kill Osama bin Laden on 2 May and the furore over a CIA agent, Raymond Davis, who shot dead two men in Lahore in January.Pakistan's military and the ISI intelligence service have sought to restrict CIA activities by seeking lists of spies, closing intelligence cooperation centres, and restricting visas for US personnel.The US, meanwhile, is trying to repair the relationship, recognising Pakistan's importance in fighting al-Qaida and, perhaps, reaching a peace settlement in Afghanistan.Although at least 120 military trainers have been ordered to leave the country, the US recently agreed to replace two Orion surveillance planes that were destroyed in a militant assault on a Karachi naval base in May.The CIA use of Shamsi is controversial in Pakistan, where drone strikes are extremely unpopular. A recent Pew poll found 97% of respondents viewed them negatively.Shamsi was built by Arab Sheikhs from the United Arab Emirates to facilitate hunting falcon trips for the houbara bustard, a rare bird some Arabs believe has aphrodisiac properties. The CIA presence was detected in 2004, when the first drone strikes occurred. Google Earth images showed Predator drones parked on the runway.Since then CIA contractors have been stationed at Shamsi, fuelling and arming Predator and the newer Reaper drones. Operators at the base control the pilotless planes during takeoff but control quickly passes to a \"reachback operator\"sitting at a video screen thousands of miles away at the CIA headquarters in Langley Virginia.The drones use different warheads, from Hellfire missiles that travel at supersonic speeds to laser-guided Stingers and other missiles using thermobaric warheads that create percussion waves which can penetrate deep bunkers and caves.According to the New America Foundation, which tracks drone strikes, there have been 253 since 2004, with 42 so far this year. Various press reports put the death toll from the strikes at between 1,557 and 2,464.The varying figures highlight the difficulty of obtaining accurate information from the tribal belt, which is out of bounds to foreigners and most local reporters, and where Taliban fighters take control of drone attack sites immediately after the strikes occur.The most contentious issue is civilian casualties. The New American foundation, based on press reporters, estimates non-militant deaths at 20% of the total, although in 2010 this fell to 5%.Pakistan's military has previously tried to distance itself from Shamsi by claiming that the airbase was the territory of the United Arab Emirates. However, base security and other logistics have been provided by Pakistani forces.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US military", "US news", "Al-Qaida", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan orders US out of drone base"},{"date": "2011-05-13T23:01:21Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "If ever an opportunity presented itself for a civilian government to claw back powers it has ceded to an army whose tentacles extend into every part of life in Pakistan, yesterday was the day. The army, and its premier spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI), were facing an unprecedented assault on their competence after the US raid on Abbottabad. Even talk show hosts, the secular mullahs of Pakistan, turned on them.How could Osama bin Laden's presence go undetected for six years in a garrison town that is home to three regimental headquarters and a military academy? How could US helicopters grab their quarry from underneath their noses? Hours before the army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, was due to answer questions like these in a closed session of parliament, the Taliban put\u00a0down\u00a0a\u00a0third amendment for debate: How is it the military failed to protect its own recruits, 66 of whom were among over 80 who died in two suicide bombings in Charsadda, north of Peshawar?Asserting the primacy of civilian control over a failing military is, however, the last thing on the mind of President Asif Zardari. If his period of office has taught us anything, it is that there is a world of difference between strengthening the democratic project and strengthening a civilian government's hand, as one commentator has observed.If the summit of the government's ambition is to see out a full term, then a chastened army becomes the ideal partner. One pretends to govern while the other pretends to protect. But nor is that an answer either. Being the chief of Pakistan's army is a balancing act. He heads an empire that has simultaneously threatened to let the Chinese inspect the rotor parts of the stealth helicopter that crashed into Bin Laden's compound, and given the CIA access to Bin Laden's widows. Bigger trade-offs are in the works. Gen Kayani will continue to resist US pressure to go after three groups that the ISI still consider long-term assets \u2013 Mullah Omar, the Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba. To go after them would be to provoke civil war, the ISI pleads. But the price of pleading impotence may also be high: allowing back all those CIA agents who have just been forced to leave the country, and with them more US operations on sovereign soil.The bottom line is that Islamabad will not change its strategic posture. The irony of the US relationship with Pakistan is that it may not have to, if the military path currently being pursued in Afghanistan fails to blunt the Taliban's offensive. Two armies, one American the other Pakistani, both performing dysfunctionally in this part of the world, need each other.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: Marriage of inconvenience | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-16T23:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I am standing on a roof in the mountains of the Kalash valleys. Below me hundreds of men are screaming and shouting as two small wooden balls are hit up the slopes by opposing teams of players. Women in intricately designed, brightly coloured dresses are looking on, talking and laughing. One player draws back his long wooden club and hammers the ball onward. Cries of joy fill the air.\"What just happened?\" I ask the player. \"We cheated,\" he laughs. \"The ball was lost in the snow so I took a\u00a0ball from my pocket and hit that one. Don't tell the other team. If they knew, we would lose this point.\"The ball flies on up the four-mile-long course, over rivers and up banks. That night, the winning team will sacrifice an ox, paid for by the losers. Everyone will get drunk. It is winter and there is not much to do. The game is chikik gal.In February this year, the Taliban assassinated Pakistan's Christian minister for minorities, Shahbaz Bhatti. He was the only politician representing the non-Muslim populations of Pakistan. His smallest ward was the Kalash, a 3,000-strong animist tribe living in the mountains of the Hindu Kush, in Pakistan's wild northwest frontier. A persistent myth tells of their descent from members of an errant division of Alexander the Great's army, which ripped through the mountains of northern Pakistan more than 2,000 years ago.In Rudyard Kipling's time, the Kalash were known as the \"black Kafirs\" and their land was Kafiristan, the setting for his tale of insanity and idolatry, The Man Who Would be King. The \"red Kafirs\", their neighbours, the subjects of Kipling's story, were brutally converted at the end of the 19th century. They became Nuristanis, \"enlightened ones\", and their rugged mountain land is one of the centres of the war against the Taliban.The Kalash live in three valleys (Bumboret, Birir and Rumbur) by the Afghan border in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. In winter, flights to Chitral, the nearest town, are routinely and consistently cancelled without warning. My journey from Islamabad was by road, through Mardan and Dir up to the Lowari tunnel and then down the other side. In the winter, when the Lowari pass is blocked by snow, the tunnel is the only way of travelling to Chitral by road. Its construction began in 2005 and it is now open for a few hours every day. It is less a tunnel and more a 9km-long cave.But in spite of the constant sense of peril it evokes, the tunnel is changing Chitral and the Kalash valleys. Previously, getting to the nearest city, Peshawar, meant a trip through Afghanistan. Now the tunnel brings supplies from the rest of the country. With access comes fear. \"Extremists use the tunnel to come here,\" says Taj Udeen, a local police commander. \"We have to make sure we know who is coming to our district.\"They certainly knew we were coming. Tourism has dropped off steeply since 9/11 \u2013 in the 1990s thousands of people visited Chitral annually, now that figure is below 100 \u2013 and we were among few outsiders to visit the Kalash valleys in the past year. Desperate to make sure nothing happened to our four-strong team, 10 armed policemen accompanied us. We spent a month in the valleys. They never left our side.For centuries, the Kalash have been fighting to preserve their traditions. People are converted to Islam every year. \"Extremist Muslims prey on weak people and create internal divisions,\" Imran Kabir, a Kalasha polymath (he reveals that he is, variously, a butcher, teacher, writer and junkyard owner) tells me.A local teacher, Akbal Shah, recounts the story of his father, who worked as a frontier policeman and converted to Islam because he was the only Kalash man in an all-Muslim unit. \"He was not educated, so they said to him that if he didn't convert he wouldn't go to heaven. He ended up believing them because he didn't want to stand out. The Muslims are a big majority, they are pressing us everywhere.\" Deathbed conversions are common and people talk of being offered wives and money if they convert. When I interviewed one of the local imams, Nasir Abdul, at his newly built mosque, he spoke of the love he has for the Kalash people before going on to say that he \"hopes they will convert to Islam so that they can go to paradise\". He is a friendly man who does not pay people to convert, but his objective is the same: the end of the Kalasha religion.Not all Muslims in the area feel this way. One convert who everyone calls \"Mullah\" tells me: \"Everyone should be free to believe what they like.\" And while Muslims are not allowed to convert to the Kalash religion, men like Mullah participate in Kalash festivals and rituals in a way that makes you believe that if they could convert back, they would.Wali Khan, the Kalash headmaster of a primary school in Bumboret valley and a charismatic and popular figure, has worked tirelessly to improve the standards of schooling in the valleys (until the 1990s, there were no official schools). His family is typical in that two of his three brothers have converted to Islam (the one who hasn't is confusingly nicknamed Mujahideen). He tells me that for \"two years my brother was living like an imam. But then he got bored and now he is drinking and smoking and dancing!\" Drinking means the local moonshine, tara, which tastes like schnapps, or homemade wine, which tastes like sherry. Kalash dealers routinely and illegally sell both drinks to Muslims.Another source of tension is the aid that the Kalash receive from NGOs and the government. At the centre of this controversy is the Kalasha Dur \u2013 a museum, small hospital, library, hostel and school complex for the Kalash (which Muslims cannot attend), housed within an absurdly Greek-looking palace built by the NGO Greek Volunteers, with help from Greece's government body Hellenic Aid. Greek Volunteers's director, Athanasios Lerounis, a long-time champion of the Kalash and the man who raised the money to build the centre, assures me that though there are \"similarities to the Ionic style\", the building came from \"the local architecture\". The attempted olive growing that goes on is, however, more likely to be an ancient tradition of Athens.In 2009, a Taliban unit stole into the valleys at night and kidnapped Lerounis. They had been tipped off by locals sympathetic to their cause and came to the Kalasha Dur during a\u00a0night when only two security guards were posted. One guard fled while the other stood his ground and was killed. Lerounis was taken swiftly across the Afghan border to Nuristan. The Greek teacher's ransom, thought to be up to \u00a31m, was paid and he returned to Greece. The security services will not let him return to Pakistan because they believe his presence in the country is dangerous. Lerounis, who wants to come back to the valleys, tells me he does not want to talk about the kidnapping because doing so would endanger the Kalash people. Whatever they think of the Taliban's policies, the Kalash stress their neutrality: they are too vulnerable to court trouble.The kidnapping highlights the security risk presented by the lavish Greek building: in a small, rural community, it sticks out. Locals say that there is a Taliban plot to blow up the Kalasha Dur. The building's detractors say that the exclusion of Muslims from the school only adds to the resentment felt by those who feel that the Kalash get too much money from outsiders.Wali Khan used to work with Lerounis compiling a Kalasha alphabet, but left because he didn't like the division the Kalasha Dur had created. \"The Kalash and the Muslims have to get along; they have to live side by side,\" he says. \"So why make a school in which only one kind of person can be taught?\" Lerounis argues that the school was built in response to a need highlighted by the Kalash community: \"I asked them what they wanted and they told me they needed a school\u2026 There are many Muslim schools and many madrasas. The Kalash need this. There is a division because of their tradition, not because of our building.\"The Kalasha Dur's first-aid centre treats Muslims, and Greek Volunteers have also built Muslim schools and secured a clean-water supply that is used by everyone. Yet the suspicion remains that they do as much harm as good. Imran Kabir believes that Lerounis created a culture of dependence so that in the end people \"treated him like a God\". Instead of praying to their maker, Kabir told me, they would pray to Lerounis. Since he has been gone, the Kalash have started helping themselves again, something Lerounis would probably approve of.Nabaig (like Prince, he has no second name) is the first Kalash lawyer. He works in Chitral and, when he is in court, wears a suit and tie that makes you think of Reservoir Dogs. Back in the valleys, in his traditional clothes, he tells me that the United Nations Development Programme money that comes to the valleys \"goes in the pockets of the politicians and higher personalities\". The same is said of the international money that came to the country to help relieve flooding in 2010.\"None of the money came to us,\" says Nabaig, who points out that food is now twice the price as a result.Almost all accounts of the Kalash fixate on the tribe's mythological descent from Alexander the Great. The romance of Alexander's tribe is a key part of Kalash tourism, although \"they did a DNA test and they found no connection\" is a\u00a0familiar refrain here. Lerounis calls the area an \"open museum\"; the valleys' reputation as a Garden of Eden, a lost land of innocent people, meant that a\u00a0summer stop to see the Kalash used to be an adventurous part of the hippie trail. But another form of tourism has developed: young Muslim men from the south, deprived of contact with women their own age, come here to chat up Kalash girls and watch them dance.The government has a confused relationship with the Kalash. Wali Khan says it \"protects the Kalash people very well now because we are a unique culture\". But there is also worry that this kind of cultural tourism can be exploitative. Abdul Sattar, a village elder who has converted to Islam, tells me that \"before, when I was Kalash, I was very happy. But the government and people from the rest of Pakistan were coming here and making us dance and perform. I became a Muslim because I couldn't enjoy performing for outsiders.\"The government's press office in Islamabad sent out a string of mixed messages, telling me the trip was \"very dangerous\" yet repeatedly talking about how wonderful the Kalash were and how thrilled the government was to see journalists coming to the country to cover something other than the war with the Taliban. The constitution protects minorities and the law safeguards the customs of the Kalash. This is how Nabaig wins most of his cases, which involve Kalash alcohol and drug traffickers and disputes between Islamic and Kalash property laws. Still, the lawyer remains unconvinced by the authorities. \"I am worried about what is happening because we are isolated. We are in the minority. We are worried that our traditions won't survive.\"This survival is being safeguarded in interesting ways. There has been a concerted effort in recent years to reproduce as much as possible in order to bolster numbers. That way, if a couple of the children end up being converted, the pain will be less sharp. And, in the end, it is this spirit that will see the Kalash through. Free-minded and intensely aware of their \"unique culture\" they appear to be getting stronger rather than weaker. New roads and new technology often kill cultures such as theirs but the opposite seems to be true.That they have had problems moving from a barter economy to a\u00a0monetary one cannot be denied and that their traditional dependence on goats is becoming less valuable is also true, but the Kalash are using their increased contact with the outside world to educate others. Their language has, for the first time, been put into a written form (they use the English alphabet). Nabaig, who is 29, says that his generation is \"very keen to be Kalash, to preserve our culture. With trade we are gaining facilities. We are feeding our families\". One Kalash teenager told me his culture \"was over\". Almost all his friends contradicted him. Those who go to the big cities to work want to return to the valleys. One of the village kasis (\"guardians of knowledge\") told me that now \"education is very good. When I was younger there were no schools, no roads and no Jeeps. We had no clothes. We had no shoes. Now it is better.\" The Kalash are learning about their culture in order to preserve it. As we look out over the valley and up to Afghanistan, Imran Kabir looks up and says: \"The future is bright. The dark ages are gone.\"Wild Frontiers (wildfrontiers.co.uk) is running a 16-day adventure to the Hindu Kush spring festival, departing 7 May and costing \u00a32,090 land only. Eithad Airways (etihadairways.com) flies London to Islamabad from \u00a3591. The FCO advises against all travel to the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and much of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa", "tags": ["Pakistan holidays", "Taliban", "Rudyard Kipling", "Afghanistan holidays", "Islam", "Travel"], "title": "Culture Kalash in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-06-11T22:40:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two explosions ripped through a busy market in Pakistan's volatile northwestern city of Peshawar, killing at least 34 people and injuring nearly\u00a0100. Police said that the first blast was relatively small and drew rescue workers to the site before a larger explosion rocked the market area a few minutes later causing scores of casualties.Jamal Khan, a 22-year-old student who was rushing to the scene as the second blast occurred, said: \"The explosion was so huge I will never forget it all my life. It was deafening, and then there was a cloud of dust and smoke. When the dust settled, I saw people crying for help and body parts scattered everywhere.\"No group claimed immediate responsibility for the bombing, but the Pakistani Taliban have pledged to carry out attacks in retaliation for the American special forces raid that killed Osama bin Laden in an army town outside Islamabad last month.Initial reports indicated the second blast in Peshawar was caused by explosives placed in a vehicle and detonated by remote control, said Dost Mohammed, a senior local police official. The source of the first explosion was unknown.The attack took place across the street from the offices of the top political agent to Khyber, part of Pakistan's volatile tribal region, and a short distance from army housing units. Peshawar borders the tribal region and has been repeatedly hit by bombings over the past few years.Doctor Mohammed Farooq said many of the victims were so badly burned they were difficult to identify and that the dead included at least one journalist. Four more journalists and at least 10 police officers were also injured, he said.The attack took place as the CIA director, Leon Panetta, and the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, visited the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, 95 miles to the east, to speak separately with senior Pakistani officials about sharing intelligence.Panetta's meetings were intended to focus on the size and scope of future American intelligence activities. The Bin Laden operation plunged an already strained relationship between the CIA and Pakistan's main intelligence agency, the ISI, to a new low. It has also threatened to undermine the co-operation between the two countries that is pivotal to the continued fight against al-Qaida and Taliban militants battling Nato forces in Afghanistan.In an attempt to rebuild their relationship, Washington and Islamabad have agreed to form a joint intelligence team to track down terrorists inside Pakistan, drawing in part from the records taken from Bin Laden's lair during the raid.\"We both want stability in Afghanistan and in Pakistan,\" said the Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza, Gilani yesterday. \"Our only aim is to support the peace process, which is Afghan led.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: fatal explosions in Peshawar"},{"date": "2011-06-30T14:37:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has stopped US drone flights from a remote airbase in the western province of Balochistan and ordered US personnel to vacate it, the defence minister has said.\"We have told them to leave the Shamsi airbase,\" Chaudhry Ahmed Mukhtar said on Wednesday night, adding that US personnel had already started to shift equipment from the base.A US embassy spokesman declined to comment, referring queries to Washington.Shamsi is located in a remote valley 350 miles south-west of Waziristan, where most of the CIA-directed Predator and Reaper drone strikes against al-Qaida and Taliban targets take place.The closure of the base is a blow to a covert programme that has killed up to 2,500 people since its inception seven years ago and forms a cornerstone of President Barack Obama's strategy to flush al-Qaida from its Pakistani havens.The US insists it will press ahead with the strikes. In unusually direct comments, Obama's counter-terrorism adviser John Brennan said on Wednesday that the US would continue to \"deliver precise and overwhelming force against al-Qaida\" in the tribal areas.The attacks are likely to continue from CIA bases in Afghanistan \u2013 the latest took place on 20 June in Kurram tribal agency. A senior Pakistani military official said the US had not used Shamsi for \"several months\" and was already flying drones across the border.Senior civilian officials said they closed Shamsi in retaliation for an American reduction of coalition support funds, a multibillion-dollar subsidy for Pakistani military operations. The defence minister said US forces had already vacated Ghazi airbase, 40 miles north-west of Islamabad.A US official in Pakistan accused the government of engaging in \"diplomacy by headline\" but refused to comment further.The spat marks another low point in Pakistan-US relations after the raid to kill Osama bin Laden on 2 May and the furore over a CIA agent, Raymond Davis, who shot dead two men in Lahore in January.Pakistan's military and the ISI intelligence service have sought to restrict CIA activities by seeking lists of spies, closing intelligence cooperation centres, and restricting visas for US personnel.The US, meanwhile, is trying to repair the relationship, recognising Pakistan's importance in fighting al-Qaida and, perhaps, reaching a peace settlement in Afghanistan.Although at least 120 military trainers have been ordered to leave the country, the US recently agreed to replace two Orion surveillance planes that were destroyed in a militant assault on a Karachi naval base in May.The CIA use of Shamsi is controversial in Pakistan, where drone strikes are extremely unpopular. A recent Pew poll found 97% of respondents viewed them negatively.Shamsi was built by Arab Sheikhs from the United Arab Emirates to facilitate hunting falcon trips for the houbara bustard, a rare bird some Arabs believe has aphrodisiac properties. The CIA presence was detected in 2004, when the first drone strikes occurred. Google Earth images showed Predator drones parked on the runway.Since then CIA contractors have been stationed at Shamsi, fuelling and arming Predator and the newer Reaper drones. Operators at the base control the pilotless planes during takeoff but control quickly passes to a \"reachback operator\"sitting at a video screen thousands of miles away at the CIA headquarters in Langley Virginia.The drones use different warheads, from Hellfire missiles that travel at supersonic speeds to laser-guided Stingers and other missiles using thermobaric warheads that create percussion waves which can penetrate deep bunkers and caves.According to the New America Foundation, which tracks drone strikes, there have been 253 since 2004, with 42 so far this year. Various press reports put the death toll from the strikes at between 1,557 and 2,464.The varying figures highlight the difficulty of obtaining accurate information from the tribal belt, which is out of bounds to foreigners and most local reporters, and where Taliban fighters take control of drone attack sites immediately after the strikes occur.The most contentious issue is civilian casualties. The New American foundation, based on press reporters, estimates non-militant deaths at 20% of the total, although in 2010 this fell to 5%.Pakistan's military has previously tried to distance itself from Shamsi by claiming that the airbase was the territory of the United Arab Emirates. However, base security and other logistics have been provided by Pakistani forces.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US military", "US news", "Al-Qaida", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan orders US out of drone base"},{"date": "2011-04-07T17:30:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There's no Cookie Monster, no Big Bird and no Count von Count.But Pakistani children will soon start experiencing what millions in the west have done for more than four decades \u2013 the joys of Sesame Street.In a $20m (\u00a312m) remake of the classic American children's programme, the setting for the show has moved from the streets of New York to a lively village in Pakistan with a roadside tea and snacks stall, known as a dhaba, some fancy houses with overhanging balconies along with simple dwellings, and residents hanging out on their verandas.The Pakistani version, in which characters will speak mostly in Urdu, will feature Rani, a cute six-year-old Muppet, the child of a peasant farmer, with pigtails, flowers in her hair and a smart blue-and-white school uniform. Her curiosity and questions about the world will, it is hoped, make her a role model for Pakistani children.The financing for the series comes from USAid, the economic assistance arm of the US government, which aims to help the country's young learn some basic words and numbers through Sesame Street's fun style of education. Pakistan's schooling system is failing badly, a major reason for a descent into religious conservatism and economic stagnation.Elmo, the cheerful monster toddler from the original, will be in the Pakistani version, with new local personality touches. But other American favourites such as Count von Count \u2013 a lovable vampire who would rather count telephone rings than answer the phone \u2013 will make way for local characters in SimSim Humara (\"Ours\"), the Pakistani edition.The programme, which will start filming this summer in Lahore and begin airing in the autumn, is targeted particularly at deprived children outside the big cities and will be shown on the national state broadcaster, PTV, so it should be available even in the smallest village. Following the Sesame Street formula, each show will pick one word and one number to highlight.\"The idea is to prepare and inspire a child to go on the path of learning, and inspire the parents of the child to think that the child must be educated,\" said Faizaan Peerzada, the chief operating officer at the Lahore-based Rafi Peer Theatre Workshop, which was awarded the commission for the project in collaboration with Sesame Workshop, the creator of the American show. \"This is a very serious business, the education of the children of Pakistan at a critical time.\"The show will have strong female characters and carry an implicit message of tolerance but will feature no pro-American propaganda or overt challenge to hardline religious sentiment. Under Barack Obama, US civilian assistance to Pakistan has tripled to $1.5bn a year but the money does not seem to have made much obvious impact. The Pakistani Sesame Street could turn out to be the most visible American aid project in Pakistan in recent years.The $20m US grant will produce the Pakistani Sesame Street for four years, with 78 episodes in Urdu and 56 in regional languages, a radio show, mobile TV vans to show the programme in remote areas and a travelling Muppet roadshow.Some will criticise the expenditure on a TV programme, but it aims to reach 3 million kids, many more than the same sum spent on school building. The Muppets will also be used to front public service messages on issues such as health, which aim to reach 95 million people.\"Teaching kids early on makes them much more successful when they get to school. And this programme will have the capacity to encourage tolerance, which is so key to what we're trying to do here,\" said Larry Dolan, director of the education office at USAid for Pakistan. \"In terms of bang for the buck, reaching 95 million people is pretty important. This is much more than a TV programme, far more ambitious than a Sesame Street series.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Sesame Street", "Television", "Children's TV", "US television", "US news", "World news", "Obama administration"], "title": "Sesame Street comes to Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-13T23:01:21Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "If ever an opportunity presented itself for a civilian government to claw back powers it has ceded to an army whose tentacles extend into every part of life in Pakistan, yesterday was the day. The army, and its premier spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI), were facing an unprecedented assault on their competence after the US raid on Abbottabad. Even talk show hosts, the secular mullahs of Pakistan, turned on them.How could Osama bin Laden's presence go undetected for six years in a garrison town that is home to three regimental headquarters and a military academy? How could US helicopters grab their quarry from underneath their noses? Hours before the army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, was due to answer questions like these in a closed session of parliament, the Taliban put\u00a0down\u00a0a\u00a0third amendment for debate: How is it the military failed to protect its own recruits, 66 of whom were among over 80 who died in two suicide bombings in Charsadda, north of Peshawar?Asserting the primacy of civilian control over a failing military is, however, the last thing on the mind of President Asif Zardari. If his period of office has taught us anything, it is that there is a world of difference between strengthening the democratic project and strengthening a civilian government's hand, as one commentator has observed.If the summit of the government's ambition is to see out a full term, then a chastened army becomes the ideal partner. One pretends to govern while the other pretends to protect. But nor is that an answer either. Being the chief of Pakistan's army is a balancing act. He heads an empire that has simultaneously threatened to let the Chinese inspect the rotor parts of the stealth helicopter that crashed into Bin Laden's compound, and given the CIA access to Bin Laden's widows. Bigger trade-offs are in the works. Gen Kayani will continue to resist US pressure to go after three groups that the ISI still consider long-term assets \u2013 Mullah Omar, the Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba. To go after them would be to provoke civil war, the ISI pleads. But the price of pleading impotence may also be high: allowing back all those CIA agents who have just been forced to leave the country, and with them more US operations on sovereign soil.The bottom line is that Islamabad will not change its strategic posture. The irony of the US relationship with Pakistan is that it may not have to, if the military path currently being pursued in Afghanistan fails to blunt the Taliban's offensive. Two armies, one American the other Pakistani, both performing dysfunctionally in this part of the world, need each other.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: Marriage of inconvenience | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-16T23:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I am standing on a roof in the mountains of the Kalash valleys. Below me hundreds of men are screaming and shouting as two small wooden balls are hit up the slopes by opposing teams of players. Women in intricately designed, brightly coloured dresses are looking on, talking and laughing. One player draws back his long wooden club and hammers the ball onward. Cries of joy fill the air.\"What just happened?\" I ask the player. \"We cheated,\" he laughs. \"The ball was lost in the snow so I took a\u00a0ball from my pocket and hit that one. Don't tell the other team. If they knew, we would lose this point.\"The ball flies on up the four-mile-long course, over rivers and up banks. That night, the winning team will sacrifice an ox, paid for by the losers. Everyone will get drunk. It is winter and there is not much to do. The game is chikik gal.In February this year, the Taliban assassinated Pakistan's Christian minister for minorities, Shahbaz Bhatti. He was the only politician representing the non-Muslim populations of Pakistan. His smallest ward was the Kalash, a 3,000-strong animist tribe living in the mountains of the Hindu Kush, in Pakistan's wild northwest frontier. A persistent myth tells of their descent from members of an errant division of Alexander the Great's army, which ripped through the mountains of northern Pakistan more than 2,000 years ago.In Rudyard Kipling's time, the Kalash were known as the \"black Kafirs\" and their land was Kafiristan, the setting for his tale of insanity and idolatry, The Man Who Would be King. The \"red Kafirs\", their neighbours, the subjects of Kipling's story, were brutally converted at the end of the 19th century. They became Nuristanis, \"enlightened ones\", and their rugged mountain land is one of the centres of the war against the Taliban.The Kalash live in three valleys (Bumboret, Birir and Rumbur) by the Afghan border in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. In winter, flights to Chitral, the nearest town, are routinely and consistently cancelled without warning. My journey from Islamabad was by road, through Mardan and Dir up to the Lowari tunnel and then down the other side. In the winter, when the Lowari pass is blocked by snow, the tunnel is the only way of travelling to Chitral by road. Its construction began in 2005 and it is now open for a few hours every day. It is less a tunnel and more a 9km-long cave.But in spite of the constant sense of peril it evokes, the tunnel is changing Chitral and the Kalash valleys. Previously, getting to the nearest city, Peshawar, meant a trip through Afghanistan. Now the tunnel brings supplies from the rest of the country. With access comes fear. \"Extremists use the tunnel to come here,\" says Taj Udeen, a local police commander. \"We have to make sure we know who is coming to our district.\"They certainly knew we were coming. Tourism has dropped off steeply since 9/11 \u2013 in the 1990s thousands of people visited Chitral annually, now that figure is below 100 \u2013 and we were among few outsiders to visit the Kalash valleys in the past year. Desperate to make sure nothing happened to our four-strong team, 10 armed policemen accompanied us. We spent a month in the valleys. They never left our side.For centuries, the Kalash have been fighting to preserve their traditions. People are converted to Islam every year. \"Extremist Muslims prey on weak people and create internal divisions,\" Imran Kabir, a Kalasha polymath (he reveals that he is, variously, a butcher, teacher, writer and junkyard owner) tells me.A local teacher, Akbal Shah, recounts the story of his father, who worked as a frontier policeman and converted to Islam because he was the only Kalash man in an all-Muslim unit. \"He was not educated, so they said to him that if he didn't convert he wouldn't go to heaven. He ended up believing them because he didn't want to stand out. The Muslims are a big majority, they are pressing us everywhere.\" Deathbed conversions are common and people talk of being offered wives and money if they convert. When I interviewed one of the local imams, Nasir Abdul, at his newly built mosque, he spoke of the love he has for the Kalash people before going on to say that he \"hopes they will convert to Islam so that they can go to paradise\". He is a friendly man who does not pay people to convert, but his objective is the same: the end of the Kalasha religion.Not all Muslims in the area feel this way. One convert who everyone calls \"Mullah\" tells me: \"Everyone should be free to believe what they like.\" And while Muslims are not allowed to convert to the Kalash religion, men like Mullah participate in Kalash festivals and rituals in a way that makes you believe that if they could convert back, they would.Wali Khan, the Kalash headmaster of a primary school in Bumboret valley and a charismatic and popular figure, has worked tirelessly to improve the standards of schooling in the valleys (until the 1990s, there were no official schools). His family is typical in that two of his three brothers have converted to Islam (the one who hasn't is confusingly nicknamed Mujahideen). He tells me that for \"two years my brother was living like an imam. But then he got bored and now he is drinking and smoking and dancing!\" Drinking means the local moonshine, tara, which tastes like schnapps, or homemade wine, which tastes like sherry. Kalash dealers routinely and illegally sell both drinks to Muslims.Another source of tension is the aid that the Kalash receive from NGOs and the government. At the centre of this controversy is the Kalasha Dur \u2013 a museum, small hospital, library, hostel and school complex for the Kalash (which Muslims cannot attend), housed within an absurdly Greek-looking palace built by the NGO Greek Volunteers, with help from Greece's government body Hellenic Aid. Greek Volunteers's director, Athanasios Lerounis, a long-time champion of the Kalash and the man who raised the money to build the centre, assures me that though there are \"similarities to the Ionic style\", the building came from \"the local architecture\". The attempted olive growing that goes on is, however, more likely to be an ancient tradition of Athens.In 2009, a Taliban unit stole into the valleys at night and kidnapped Lerounis. They had been tipped off by locals sympathetic to their cause and came to the Kalasha Dur during a\u00a0night when only two security guards were posted. One guard fled while the other stood his ground and was killed. Lerounis was taken swiftly across the Afghan border to Nuristan. The Greek teacher's ransom, thought to be up to \u00a31m, was paid and he returned to Greece. The security services will not let him return to Pakistan because they believe his presence in the country is dangerous. Lerounis, who wants to come back to the valleys, tells me he does not want to talk about the kidnapping because doing so would endanger the Kalash people. Whatever they think of the Taliban's policies, the Kalash stress their neutrality: they are too vulnerable to court trouble.The kidnapping highlights the security risk presented by the lavish Greek building: in a small, rural community, it sticks out. Locals say that there is a Taliban plot to blow up the Kalasha Dur. The building's detractors say that the exclusion of Muslims from the school only adds to the resentment felt by those who feel that the Kalash get too much money from outsiders.Wali Khan used to work with Lerounis compiling a Kalasha alphabet, but left because he didn't like the division the Kalasha Dur had created. \"The Kalash and the Muslims have to get along; they have to live side by side,\" he says. \"So why make a school in which only one kind of person can be taught?\" Lerounis argues that the school was built in response to a need highlighted by the Kalash community: \"I asked them what they wanted and they told me they needed a school\u2026 There are many Muslim schools and many madrasas. The Kalash need this. There is a division because of their tradition, not because of our building.\"The Kalasha Dur's first-aid centre treats Muslims, and Greek Volunteers have also built Muslim schools and secured a clean-water supply that is used by everyone. Yet the suspicion remains that they do as much harm as good. Imran Kabir believes that Lerounis created a culture of dependence so that in the end people \"treated him like a God\". Instead of praying to their maker, Kabir told me, they would pray to Lerounis. Since he has been gone, the Kalash have started helping themselves again, something Lerounis would probably approve of.Nabaig (like Prince, he has no second name) is the first Kalash lawyer. He works in Chitral and, when he is in court, wears a suit and tie that makes you think of Reservoir Dogs. Back in the valleys, in his traditional clothes, he tells me that the United Nations Development Programme money that comes to the valleys \"goes in the pockets of the politicians and higher personalities\". The same is said of the international money that came to the country to help relieve flooding in 2010.\"None of the money came to us,\" says Nabaig, who points out that food is now twice the price as a result.Almost all accounts of the Kalash fixate on the tribe's mythological descent from Alexander the Great. The romance of Alexander's tribe is a key part of Kalash tourism, although \"they did a DNA test and they found no connection\" is a\u00a0familiar refrain here. Lerounis calls the area an \"open museum\"; the valleys' reputation as a Garden of Eden, a lost land of innocent people, meant that a\u00a0summer stop to see the Kalash used to be an adventurous part of the hippie trail. But another form of tourism has developed: young Muslim men from the south, deprived of contact with women their own age, come here to chat up Kalash girls and watch them dance.The government has a confused relationship with the Kalash. Wali Khan says it \"protects the Kalash people very well now because we are a unique culture\". But there is also worry that this kind of cultural tourism can be exploitative. Abdul Sattar, a village elder who has converted to Islam, tells me that \"before, when I was Kalash, I was very happy. But the government and people from the rest of Pakistan were coming here and making us dance and perform. I became a Muslim because I couldn't enjoy performing for outsiders.\"The government's press office in Islamabad sent out a string of mixed messages, telling me the trip was \"very dangerous\" yet repeatedly talking about how wonderful the Kalash were and how thrilled the government was to see journalists coming to the country to cover something other than the war with the Taliban. The constitution protects minorities and the law safeguards the customs of the Kalash. This is how Nabaig wins most of his cases, which involve Kalash alcohol and drug traffickers and disputes between Islamic and Kalash property laws. Still, the lawyer remains unconvinced by the authorities. \"I am worried about what is happening because we are isolated. We are in the minority. We are worried that our traditions won't survive.\"This survival is being safeguarded in interesting ways. There has been a concerted effort in recent years to reproduce as much as possible in order to bolster numbers. That way, if a couple of the children end up being converted, the pain will be less sharp. And, in the end, it is this spirit that will see the Kalash through. Free-minded and intensely aware of their \"unique culture\" they appear to be getting stronger rather than weaker. New roads and new technology often kill cultures such as theirs but the opposite seems to be true.That they have had problems moving from a barter economy to a\u00a0monetary one cannot be denied and that their traditional dependence on goats is becoming less valuable is also true, but the Kalash are using their increased contact with the outside world to educate others. Their language has, for the first time, been put into a written form (they use the English alphabet). Nabaig, who is 29, says that his generation is \"very keen to be Kalash, to preserve our culture. With trade we are gaining facilities. We are feeding our families\". One Kalash teenager told me his culture \"was over\". Almost all his friends contradicted him. Those who go to the big cities to work want to return to the valleys. One of the village kasis (\"guardians of knowledge\") told me that now \"education is very good. When I was younger there were no schools, no roads and no Jeeps. We had no clothes. We had no shoes. Now it is better.\" The Kalash are learning about their culture in order to preserve it. As we look out over the valley and up to Afghanistan, Imran Kabir looks up and says: \"The future is bright. The dark ages are gone.\"Wild Frontiers (wildfrontiers.co.uk) is running a 16-day adventure to the Hindu Kush spring festival, departing 7 May and costing \u00a32,090 land only. Eithad Airways (etihadairways.com) flies London to Islamabad from \u00a3591. The FCO advises against all travel to the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and much of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa", "tags": ["Pakistan holidays", "Taliban", "Rudyard Kipling", "Afghanistan holidays", "Islam", "Travel"], "title": "Culture Kalash in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-06-11T22:40:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two explosions ripped through a busy market in Pakistan's volatile northwestern city of Peshawar, killing at least 34 people and injuring nearly\u00a0100. Police said that the first blast was relatively small and drew rescue workers to the site before a larger explosion rocked the market area a few minutes later causing scores of casualties.Jamal Khan, a 22-year-old student who was rushing to the scene as the second blast occurred, said: \"The explosion was so huge I will never forget it all my life. It was deafening, and then there was a cloud of dust and smoke. When the dust settled, I saw people crying for help and body parts scattered everywhere.\"No group claimed immediate responsibility for the bombing, but the Pakistani Taliban have pledged to carry out attacks in retaliation for the American special forces raid that killed Osama bin Laden in an army town outside Islamabad last month.Initial reports indicated the second blast in Peshawar was caused by explosives placed in a vehicle and detonated by remote control, said Dost Mohammed, a senior local police official. The source of the first explosion was unknown.The attack took place across the street from the offices of the top political agent to Khyber, part of Pakistan's volatile tribal region, and a short distance from army housing units. Peshawar borders the tribal region and has been repeatedly hit by bombings over the past few years.Doctor Mohammed Farooq said many of the victims were so badly burned they were difficult to identify and that the dead included at least one journalist. Four more journalists and at least 10 police officers were also injured, he said.The attack took place as the CIA director, Leon Panetta, and the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, visited the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, 95 miles to the east, to speak separately with senior Pakistani officials about sharing intelligence.Panetta's meetings were intended to focus on the size and scope of future American intelligence activities. The Bin Laden operation plunged an already strained relationship between the CIA and Pakistan's main intelligence agency, the ISI, to a new low. It has also threatened to undermine the co-operation between the two countries that is pivotal to the continued fight against al-Qaida and Taliban militants battling Nato forces in Afghanistan.In an attempt to rebuild their relationship, Washington and Islamabad have agreed to form a joint intelligence team to track down terrorists inside Pakistan, drawing in part from the records taken from Bin Laden's lair during the raid.\"We both want stability in Afghanistan and in Pakistan,\" said the Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza, Gilani yesterday. \"Our only aim is to support the peace process, which is Afghan led.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: fatal explosions in Peshawar"},{"date": "2011-06-30T14:37:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has stopped US drone flights from a remote airbase in the western province of Balochistan and ordered US personnel to vacate it, the defence minister has said.\"We have told them to leave the Shamsi airbase,\" Chaudhry Ahmed Mukhtar said on Wednesday night, adding that US personnel had already started to shift equipment from the base.A US embassy spokesman declined to comment, referring queries to Washington.Shamsi is located in a remote valley 350 miles south-west of Waziristan, where most of the CIA-directed Predator and Reaper drone strikes against al-Qaida and Taliban targets take place.The closure of the base is a blow to a covert programme that has killed up to 2,500 people since its inception seven years ago and forms a cornerstone of President Barack Obama's strategy to flush al-Qaida from its Pakistani havens.The US insists it will press ahead with the strikes. In unusually direct comments, Obama's counter-terrorism adviser John Brennan said on Wednesday that the US would continue to \"deliver precise and overwhelming force against al-Qaida\" in the tribal areas.The attacks are likely to continue from CIA bases in Afghanistan \u2013 the latest took place on 20 June in Kurram tribal agency. A senior Pakistani military official said the US had not used Shamsi for \"several months\" and was already flying drones across the border.Senior civilian officials said they closed Shamsi in retaliation for an American reduction of coalition support funds, a multibillion-dollar subsidy for Pakistani military operations. The defence minister said US forces had already vacated Ghazi airbase, 40 miles north-west of Islamabad.A US official in Pakistan accused the government of engaging in \"diplomacy by headline\" but refused to comment further.The spat marks another low point in Pakistan-US relations after the raid to kill Osama bin Laden on 2 May and the furore over a CIA agent, Raymond Davis, who shot dead two men in Lahore in January.Pakistan's military and the ISI intelligence service have sought to restrict CIA activities by seeking lists of spies, closing intelligence cooperation centres, and restricting visas for US personnel.The US, meanwhile, is trying to repair the relationship, recognising Pakistan's importance in fighting al-Qaida and, perhaps, reaching a peace settlement in Afghanistan.Although at least 120 military trainers have been ordered to leave the country, the US recently agreed to replace two Orion surveillance planes that were destroyed in a militant assault on a Karachi naval base in May.The CIA use of Shamsi is controversial in Pakistan, where drone strikes are extremely unpopular. A recent Pew poll found 97% of respondents viewed them negatively.Shamsi was built by Arab Sheikhs from the United Arab Emirates to facilitate hunting falcon trips for the houbara bustard, a rare bird some Arabs believe has aphrodisiac properties. The CIA presence was detected in 2004, when the first drone strikes occurred. Google Earth images showed Predator drones parked on the runway.Since then CIA contractors have been stationed at Shamsi, fuelling and arming Predator and the newer Reaper drones. Operators at the base control the pilotless planes during takeoff but control quickly passes to a \"reachback operator\"sitting at a video screen thousands of miles away at the CIA headquarters in Langley Virginia.The drones use different warheads, from Hellfire missiles that travel at supersonic speeds to laser-guided Stingers and other missiles using thermobaric warheads that create percussion waves which can penetrate deep bunkers and caves.According to the New America Foundation, which tracks drone strikes, there have been 253 since 2004, with 42 so far this year. Various press reports put the death toll from the strikes at between 1,557 and 2,464.The varying figures highlight the difficulty of obtaining accurate information from the tribal belt, which is out of bounds to foreigners and most local reporters, and where Taliban fighters take control of drone attack sites immediately after the strikes occur.The most contentious issue is civilian casualties. The New American foundation, based on press reporters, estimates non-militant deaths at 20% of the total, although in 2010 this fell to 5%.Pakistan's military has previously tried to distance itself from Shamsi by claiming that the airbase was the territory of the United Arab Emirates. However, base security and other logistics have been provided by Pakistani forces.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US military", "US news", "Al-Qaida", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan orders US out of drone base"},{"date": "2011-04-07T17:30:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There's no Cookie Monster, no Big Bird and no Count von Count.But Pakistani children will soon start experiencing what millions in the west have done for more than four decades \u2013 the joys of Sesame Street.In a $20m (\u00a312m) remake of the classic American children's programme, the setting for the show has moved from the streets of New York to a lively village in Pakistan with a roadside tea and snacks stall, known as a dhaba, some fancy houses with overhanging balconies along with simple dwellings, and residents hanging out on their verandas.The Pakistani version, in which characters will speak mostly in Urdu, will feature Rani, a cute six-year-old Muppet, the child of a peasant farmer, with pigtails, flowers in her hair and a smart blue-and-white school uniform. Her curiosity and questions about the world will, it is hoped, make her a role model for Pakistani children.The financing for the series comes from USAid, the economic assistance arm of the US government, which aims to help the country's young learn some basic words and numbers through Sesame Street's fun style of education. Pakistan's schooling system is failing badly, a major reason for a descent into religious conservatism and economic stagnation.Elmo, the cheerful monster toddler from the original, will be in the Pakistani version, with new local personality touches. But other American favourites such as Count von Count \u2013 a lovable vampire who would rather count telephone rings than answer the phone \u2013 will make way for local characters in SimSim Humara (\"Ours\"), the Pakistani edition.The programme, which will start filming this summer in Lahore and begin airing in the autumn, is targeted particularly at deprived children outside the big cities and will be shown on the national state broadcaster, PTV, so it should be available even in the smallest village. Following the Sesame Street formula, each show will pick one word and one number to highlight.\"The idea is to prepare and inspire a child to go on the path of learning, and inspire the parents of the child to think that the child must be educated,\" said Faizaan Peerzada, the chief operating officer at the Lahore-based Rafi Peer Theatre Workshop, which was awarded the commission for the project in collaboration with Sesame Workshop, the creator of the American show. \"This is a very serious business, the education of the children of Pakistan at a critical time.\"The show will have strong female characters and carry an implicit message of tolerance but will feature no pro-American propaganda or overt challenge to hardline religious sentiment. Under Barack Obama, US civilian assistance to Pakistan has tripled to $1.5bn a year but the money does not seem to have made much obvious impact. The Pakistani Sesame Street could turn out to be the most visible American aid project in Pakistan in recent years.The $20m US grant will produce the Pakistani Sesame Street for four years, with 78 episodes in Urdu and 56 in regional languages, a radio show, mobile TV vans to show the programme in remote areas and a travelling Muppet roadshow.Some will criticise the expenditure on a TV programme, but it aims to reach 3 million kids, many more than the same sum spent on school building. The Muppets will also be used to front public service messages on issues such as health, which aim to reach 95 million people.\"Teaching kids early on makes them much more successful when they get to school. And this programme will have the capacity to encourage tolerance, which is so key to what we're trying to do here,\" said Larry Dolan, director of the education office at USAid for Pakistan. \"In terms of bang for the buck, reaching 95 million people is pretty important. This is much more than a TV programme, far more ambitious than a Sesame Street series.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Sesame Street", "Television", "Children's TV", "US television", "US news", "World news", "Obama administration"], "title": "Sesame Street comes to Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-26T09:26:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The US is reducing its military force in Pakistan at the request of Islamabad after US special forces killed Osama bin Laden, the Pentagon has said.More than 200 American troops are in the country helping to train the army in counter-insurgency, but there are also said to be intelligence and special forces there.No details have been given on the size of the reduction, the type of troops involved, nor whether Pakistan has set a new limit on US numbers.Pentagon spokesman Colonel David Lapan said: \"We were recently (within the past two weeks) notified in writing the government of Pakistan wished for the US to reduce its footprint in Pakistan. Accordingly we have begun those reductions.\"The request will be taken as a sign of Islamabad's annoyance that the raid on Bin Laden's compound at Abbottabad was carried out without its knowledge. There have been suspicions in Washington that some in Pakistan knew the al-Qaida leader's hideout.But Pervez Musharraf, the former president of Pakistan, denied that the country's ISI intelligence service knew, at any level, of the presence of the world's most wanted man in the garrison city. However, in an interview with BBC's Newsnight on Wednesday, he admitted that it was \"very difficult to prove non-complicity\".Musharraf said he had been surprised and shocked to discover where Bin Laden had been hiding. He added that neither he nor senior government officials had colluded in providing refuge for the fugitive while he was in power between 1999 and 2007. \"I can't imagine in my wildest dreams that the intelligence agency was doing something without telling me, so therefore there was no complicity at the strategic level.\"However, the intelligence service had demonstrated \"negligence, ineptitude and failure\" in its failure to detect Bin Laden, he said.", "tags": ["US military", "Pakistan", "US news", "Osama bin Laden", "Pervez Musharraf", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "US cuts troop numbers in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-13T23:01:21Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "If ever an opportunity presented itself for a civilian government to claw back powers it has ceded to an army whose tentacles extend into every part of life in Pakistan, yesterday was the day. The army, and its premier spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI), were facing an unprecedented assault on their competence after the US raid on Abbottabad. Even talk show hosts, the secular mullahs of Pakistan, turned on them.How could Osama bin Laden's presence go undetected for six years in a garrison town that is home to three regimental headquarters and a military academy? How could US helicopters grab their quarry from underneath their noses? Hours before the army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, was due to answer questions like these in a closed session of parliament, the Taliban put\u00a0down\u00a0a\u00a0third amendment for debate: How is it the military failed to protect its own recruits, 66 of whom were among over 80 who died in two suicide bombings in Charsadda, north of Peshawar?Asserting the primacy of civilian control over a failing military is, however, the last thing on the mind of President Asif Zardari. If his period of office has taught us anything, it is that there is a world of difference between strengthening the democratic project and strengthening a civilian government's hand, as one commentator has observed.If the summit of the government's ambition is to see out a full term, then a chastened army becomes the ideal partner. One pretends to govern while the other pretends to protect. But nor is that an answer either. Being the chief of Pakistan's army is a balancing act. He heads an empire that has simultaneously threatened to let the Chinese inspect the rotor parts of the stealth helicopter that crashed into Bin Laden's compound, and given the CIA access to Bin Laden's widows. Bigger trade-offs are in the works. Gen Kayani will continue to resist US pressure to go after three groups that the ISI still consider long-term assets \u2013 Mullah Omar, the Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba. To go after them would be to provoke civil war, the ISI pleads. But the price of pleading impotence may also be high: allowing back all those CIA agents who have just been forced to leave the country, and with them more US operations on sovereign soil.The bottom line is that Islamabad will not change its strategic posture. The irony of the US relationship with Pakistan is that it may not have to, if the military path currently being pursued in Afghanistan fails to blunt the Taliban's offensive. Two armies, one American the other Pakistani, both performing dysfunctionally in this part of the world, need each other.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: Marriage of inconvenience | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-16T23:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I am standing on a roof in the mountains of the Kalash valleys. Below me hundreds of men are screaming and shouting as two small wooden balls are hit up the slopes by opposing teams of players. Women in intricately designed, brightly coloured dresses are looking on, talking and laughing. One player draws back his long wooden club and hammers the ball onward. Cries of joy fill the air.\"What just happened?\" I ask the player. \"We cheated,\" he laughs. \"The ball was lost in the snow so I took a\u00a0ball from my pocket and hit that one. Don't tell the other team. If they knew, we would lose this point.\"The ball flies on up the four-mile-long course, over rivers and up banks. That night, the winning team will sacrifice an ox, paid for by the losers. Everyone will get drunk. It is winter and there is not much to do. The game is chikik gal.In February this year, the Taliban assassinated Pakistan's Christian minister for minorities, Shahbaz Bhatti. He was the only politician representing the non-Muslim populations of Pakistan. His smallest ward was the Kalash, a 3,000-strong animist tribe living in the mountains of the Hindu Kush, in Pakistan's wild northwest frontier. A persistent myth tells of their descent from members of an errant division of Alexander the Great's army, which ripped through the mountains of northern Pakistan more than 2,000 years ago.In Rudyard Kipling's time, the Kalash were known as the \"black Kafirs\" and their land was Kafiristan, the setting for his tale of insanity and idolatry, The Man Who Would be King. The \"red Kafirs\", their neighbours, the subjects of Kipling's story, were brutally converted at the end of the 19th century. They became Nuristanis, \"enlightened ones\", and their rugged mountain land is one of the centres of the war against the Taliban.The Kalash live in three valleys (Bumboret, Birir and Rumbur) by the Afghan border in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. In winter, flights to Chitral, the nearest town, are routinely and consistently cancelled without warning. My journey from Islamabad was by road, through Mardan and Dir up to the Lowari tunnel and then down the other side. In the winter, when the Lowari pass is blocked by snow, the tunnel is the only way of travelling to Chitral by road. Its construction began in 2005 and it is now open for a few hours every day. It is less a tunnel and more a 9km-long cave.But in spite of the constant sense of peril it evokes, the tunnel is changing Chitral and the Kalash valleys. Previously, getting to the nearest city, Peshawar, meant a trip through Afghanistan. Now the tunnel brings supplies from the rest of the country. With access comes fear. \"Extremists use the tunnel to come here,\" says Taj Udeen, a local police commander. \"We have to make sure we know who is coming to our district.\"They certainly knew we were coming. Tourism has dropped off steeply since 9/11 \u2013 in the 1990s thousands of people visited Chitral annually, now that figure is below 100 \u2013 and we were among few outsiders to visit the Kalash valleys in the past year. Desperate to make sure nothing happened to our four-strong team, 10 armed policemen accompanied us. We spent a month in the valleys. They never left our side.For centuries, the Kalash have been fighting to preserve their traditions. People are converted to Islam every year. \"Extremist Muslims prey on weak people and create internal divisions,\" Imran Kabir, a Kalasha polymath (he reveals that he is, variously, a butcher, teacher, writer and junkyard owner) tells me.A local teacher, Akbal Shah, recounts the story of his father, who worked as a frontier policeman and converted to Islam because he was the only Kalash man in an all-Muslim unit. \"He was not educated, so they said to him that if he didn't convert he wouldn't go to heaven. He ended up believing them because he didn't want to stand out. The Muslims are a big majority, they are pressing us everywhere.\" Deathbed conversions are common and people talk of being offered wives and money if they convert. When I interviewed one of the local imams, Nasir Abdul, at his newly built mosque, he spoke of the love he has for the Kalash people before going on to say that he \"hopes they will convert to Islam so that they can go to paradise\". He is a friendly man who does not pay people to convert, but his objective is the same: the end of the Kalasha religion.Not all Muslims in the area feel this way. One convert who everyone calls \"Mullah\" tells me: \"Everyone should be free to believe what they like.\" And while Muslims are not allowed to convert to the Kalash religion, men like Mullah participate in Kalash festivals and rituals in a way that makes you believe that if they could convert back, they would.Wali Khan, the Kalash headmaster of a primary school in Bumboret valley and a charismatic and popular figure, has worked tirelessly to improve the standards of schooling in the valleys (until the 1990s, there were no official schools). His family is typical in that two of his three brothers have converted to Islam (the one who hasn't is confusingly nicknamed Mujahideen). He tells me that for \"two years my brother was living like an imam. But then he got bored and now he is drinking and smoking and dancing!\" Drinking means the local moonshine, tara, which tastes like schnapps, or homemade wine, which tastes like sherry. Kalash dealers routinely and illegally sell both drinks to Muslims.Another source of tension is the aid that the Kalash receive from NGOs and the government. At the centre of this controversy is the Kalasha Dur \u2013 a museum, small hospital, library, hostel and school complex for the Kalash (which Muslims cannot attend), housed within an absurdly Greek-looking palace built by the NGO Greek Volunteers, with help from Greece's government body Hellenic Aid. Greek Volunteers's director, Athanasios Lerounis, a long-time champion of the Kalash and the man who raised the money to build the centre, assures me that though there are \"similarities to the Ionic style\", the building came from \"the local architecture\". The attempted olive growing that goes on is, however, more likely to be an ancient tradition of Athens.In 2009, a Taliban unit stole into the valleys at night and kidnapped Lerounis. They had been tipped off by locals sympathetic to their cause and came to the Kalasha Dur during a\u00a0night when only two security guards were posted. One guard fled while the other stood his ground and was killed. Lerounis was taken swiftly across the Afghan border to Nuristan. The Greek teacher's ransom, thought to be up to \u00a31m, was paid and he returned to Greece. The security services will not let him return to Pakistan because they believe his presence in the country is dangerous. Lerounis, who wants to come back to the valleys, tells me he does not want to talk about the kidnapping because doing so would endanger the Kalash people. Whatever they think of the Taliban's policies, the Kalash stress their neutrality: they are too vulnerable to court trouble.The kidnapping highlights the security risk presented by the lavish Greek building: in a small, rural community, it sticks out. Locals say that there is a Taliban plot to blow up the Kalasha Dur. The building's detractors say that the exclusion of Muslims from the school only adds to the resentment felt by those who feel that the Kalash get too much money from outsiders.Wali Khan used to work with Lerounis compiling a Kalasha alphabet, but left because he didn't like the division the Kalasha Dur had created. \"The Kalash and the Muslims have to get along; they have to live side by side,\" he says. \"So why make a school in which only one kind of person can be taught?\" Lerounis argues that the school was built in response to a need highlighted by the Kalash community: \"I asked them what they wanted and they told me they needed a school\u2026 There are many Muslim schools and many madrasas. The Kalash need this. There is a division because of their tradition, not because of our building.\"The Kalasha Dur's first-aid centre treats Muslims, and Greek Volunteers have also built Muslim schools and secured a clean-water supply that is used by everyone. Yet the suspicion remains that they do as much harm as good. Imran Kabir believes that Lerounis created a culture of dependence so that in the end people \"treated him like a God\". Instead of praying to their maker, Kabir told me, they would pray to Lerounis. Since he has been gone, the Kalash have started helping themselves again, something Lerounis would probably approve of.Nabaig (like Prince, he has no second name) is the first Kalash lawyer. He works in Chitral and, when he is in court, wears a suit and tie that makes you think of Reservoir Dogs. Back in the valleys, in his traditional clothes, he tells me that the United Nations Development Programme money that comes to the valleys \"goes in the pockets of the politicians and higher personalities\". The same is said of the international money that came to the country to help relieve flooding in 2010.\"None of the money came to us,\" says Nabaig, who points out that food is now twice the price as a result.Almost all accounts of the Kalash fixate on the tribe's mythological descent from Alexander the Great. The romance of Alexander's tribe is a key part of Kalash tourism, although \"they did a DNA test and they found no connection\" is a\u00a0familiar refrain here. Lerounis calls the area an \"open museum\"; the valleys' reputation as a Garden of Eden, a lost land of innocent people, meant that a\u00a0summer stop to see the Kalash used to be an adventurous part of the hippie trail. But another form of tourism has developed: young Muslim men from the south, deprived of contact with women their own age, come here to chat up Kalash girls and watch them dance.The government has a confused relationship with the Kalash. Wali Khan says it \"protects the Kalash people very well now because we are a unique culture\". But there is also worry that this kind of cultural tourism can be exploitative. Abdul Sattar, a village elder who has converted to Islam, tells me that \"before, when I was Kalash, I was very happy. But the government and people from the rest of Pakistan were coming here and making us dance and perform. I became a Muslim because I couldn't enjoy performing for outsiders.\"The government's press office in Islamabad sent out a string of mixed messages, telling me the trip was \"very dangerous\" yet repeatedly talking about how wonderful the Kalash were and how thrilled the government was to see journalists coming to the country to cover something other than the war with the Taliban. The constitution protects minorities and the law safeguards the customs of the Kalash. This is how Nabaig wins most of his cases, which involve Kalash alcohol and drug traffickers and disputes between Islamic and Kalash property laws. Still, the lawyer remains unconvinced by the authorities. \"I am worried about what is happening because we are isolated. We are in the minority. We are worried that our traditions won't survive.\"This survival is being safeguarded in interesting ways. There has been a concerted effort in recent years to reproduce as much as possible in order to bolster numbers. That way, if a couple of the children end up being converted, the pain will be less sharp. And, in the end, it is this spirit that will see the Kalash through. Free-minded and intensely aware of their \"unique culture\" they appear to be getting stronger rather than weaker. New roads and new technology often kill cultures such as theirs but the opposite seems to be true.That they have had problems moving from a barter economy to a\u00a0monetary one cannot be denied and that their traditional dependence on goats is becoming less valuable is also true, but the Kalash are using their increased contact with the outside world to educate others. Their language has, for the first time, been put into a written form (they use the English alphabet). Nabaig, who is 29, says that his generation is \"very keen to be Kalash, to preserve our culture. With trade we are gaining facilities. We are feeding our families\". One Kalash teenager told me his culture \"was over\". Almost all his friends contradicted him. Those who go to the big cities to work want to return to the valleys. One of the village kasis (\"guardians of knowledge\") told me that now \"education is very good. When I was younger there were no schools, no roads and no Jeeps. We had no clothes. We had no shoes. Now it is better.\" The Kalash are learning about their culture in order to preserve it. As we look out over the valley and up to Afghanistan, Imran Kabir looks up and says: \"The future is bright. The dark ages are gone.\"Wild Frontiers (wildfrontiers.co.uk) is running a 16-day adventure to the Hindu Kush spring festival, departing 7 May and costing \u00a32,090 land only. Eithad Airways (etihadairways.com) flies London to Islamabad from \u00a3591. The FCO advises against all travel to the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and much of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa", "tags": ["Pakistan holidays", "Taliban", "Rudyard Kipling", "Afghanistan holidays", "Islam", "Travel"], "title": "Culture Kalash in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-06-11T22:40:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two explosions ripped through a busy market in Pakistan's volatile northwestern city of Peshawar, killing at least 34 people and injuring nearly\u00a0100. Police said that the first blast was relatively small and drew rescue workers to the site before a larger explosion rocked the market area a few minutes later causing scores of casualties.Jamal Khan, a 22-year-old student who was rushing to the scene as the second blast occurred, said: \"The explosion was so huge I will never forget it all my life. It was deafening, and then there was a cloud of dust and smoke. When the dust settled, I saw people crying for help and body parts scattered everywhere.\"No group claimed immediate responsibility for the bombing, but the Pakistani Taliban have pledged to carry out attacks in retaliation for the American special forces raid that killed Osama bin Laden in an army town outside Islamabad last month.Initial reports indicated the second blast in Peshawar was caused by explosives placed in a vehicle and detonated by remote control, said Dost Mohammed, a senior local police official. The source of the first explosion was unknown.The attack took place across the street from the offices of the top political agent to Khyber, part of Pakistan's volatile tribal region, and a short distance from army housing units. Peshawar borders the tribal region and has been repeatedly hit by bombings over the past few years.Doctor Mohammed Farooq said many of the victims were so badly burned they were difficult to identify and that the dead included at least one journalist. Four more journalists and at least 10 police officers were also injured, he said.The attack took place as the CIA director, Leon Panetta, and the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, visited the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, 95 miles to the east, to speak separately with senior Pakistani officials about sharing intelligence.Panetta's meetings were intended to focus on the size and scope of future American intelligence activities. The Bin Laden operation plunged an already strained relationship between the CIA and Pakistan's main intelligence agency, the ISI, to a new low. It has also threatened to undermine the co-operation between the two countries that is pivotal to the continued fight against al-Qaida and Taliban militants battling Nato forces in Afghanistan.In an attempt to rebuild their relationship, Washington and Islamabad have agreed to form a joint intelligence team to track down terrorists inside Pakistan, drawing in part from the records taken from Bin Laden's lair during the raid.\"We both want stability in Afghanistan and in Pakistan,\" said the Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza, Gilani yesterday. \"Our only aim is to support the peace process, which is Afghan led.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: fatal explosions in Peshawar"},{"date": "2011-06-30T14:37:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has stopped US drone flights from a remote airbase in the western province of Balochistan and ordered US personnel to vacate it, the defence minister has said.\"We have told them to leave the Shamsi airbase,\" Chaudhry Ahmed Mukhtar said on Wednesday night, adding that US personnel had already started to shift equipment from the base.A US embassy spokesman declined to comment, referring queries to Washington.Shamsi is located in a remote valley 350 miles south-west of Waziristan, where most of the CIA-directed Predator and Reaper drone strikes against al-Qaida and Taliban targets take place.The closure of the base is a blow to a covert programme that has killed up to 2,500 people since its inception seven years ago and forms a cornerstone of President Barack Obama's strategy to flush al-Qaida from its Pakistani havens.The US insists it will press ahead with the strikes. In unusually direct comments, Obama's counter-terrorism adviser John Brennan said on Wednesday that the US would continue to \"deliver precise and overwhelming force against al-Qaida\" in the tribal areas.The attacks are likely to continue from CIA bases in Afghanistan \u2013 the latest took place on 20 June in Kurram tribal agency. A senior Pakistani military official said the US had not used Shamsi for \"several months\" and was already flying drones across the border.Senior civilian officials said they closed Shamsi in retaliation for an American reduction of coalition support funds, a multibillion-dollar subsidy for Pakistani military operations. The defence minister said US forces had already vacated Ghazi airbase, 40 miles north-west of Islamabad.A US official in Pakistan accused the government of engaging in \"diplomacy by headline\" but refused to comment further.The spat marks another low point in Pakistan-US relations after the raid to kill Osama bin Laden on 2 May and the furore over a CIA agent, Raymond Davis, who shot dead two men in Lahore in January.Pakistan's military and the ISI intelligence service have sought to restrict CIA activities by seeking lists of spies, closing intelligence cooperation centres, and restricting visas for US personnel.The US, meanwhile, is trying to repair the relationship, recognising Pakistan's importance in fighting al-Qaida and, perhaps, reaching a peace settlement in Afghanistan.Although at least 120 military trainers have been ordered to leave the country, the US recently agreed to replace two Orion surveillance planes that were destroyed in a militant assault on a Karachi naval base in May.The CIA use of Shamsi is controversial in Pakistan, where drone strikes are extremely unpopular. A recent Pew poll found 97% of respondents viewed them negatively.Shamsi was built by Arab Sheikhs from the United Arab Emirates to facilitate hunting falcon trips for the houbara bustard, a rare bird some Arabs believe has aphrodisiac properties. The CIA presence was detected in 2004, when the first drone strikes occurred. Google Earth images showed Predator drones parked on the runway.Since then CIA contractors have been stationed at Shamsi, fuelling and arming Predator and the newer Reaper drones. Operators at the base control the pilotless planes during takeoff but control quickly passes to a \"reachback operator\"sitting at a video screen thousands of miles away at the CIA headquarters in Langley Virginia.The drones use different warheads, from Hellfire missiles that travel at supersonic speeds to laser-guided Stingers and other missiles using thermobaric warheads that create percussion waves which can penetrate deep bunkers and caves.According to the New America Foundation, which tracks drone strikes, there have been 253 since 2004, with 42 so far this year. Various press reports put the death toll from the strikes at between 1,557 and 2,464.The varying figures highlight the difficulty of obtaining accurate information from the tribal belt, which is out of bounds to foreigners and most local reporters, and where Taliban fighters take control of drone attack sites immediately after the strikes occur.The most contentious issue is civilian casualties. The New American foundation, based on press reporters, estimates non-militant deaths at 20% of the total, although in 2010 this fell to 5%.Pakistan's military has previously tried to distance itself from Shamsi by claiming that the airbase was the territory of the United Arab Emirates. However, base security and other logistics have been provided by Pakistani forces.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US military", "US news", "Al-Qaida", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan orders US out of drone base"},{"date": "2011-04-07T17:30:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There's no Cookie Monster, no Big Bird and no Count von Count.But Pakistani children will soon start experiencing what millions in the west have done for more than four decades \u2013 the joys of Sesame Street.In a $20m (\u00a312m) remake of the classic American children's programme, the setting for the show has moved from the streets of New York to a lively village in Pakistan with a roadside tea and snacks stall, known as a dhaba, some fancy houses with overhanging balconies along with simple dwellings, and residents hanging out on their verandas.The Pakistani version, in which characters will speak mostly in Urdu, will feature Rani, a cute six-year-old Muppet, the child of a peasant farmer, with pigtails, flowers in her hair and a smart blue-and-white school uniform. Her curiosity and questions about the world will, it is hoped, make her a role model for Pakistani children.The financing for the series comes from USAid, the economic assistance arm of the US government, which aims to help the country's young learn some basic words and numbers through Sesame Street's fun style of education. Pakistan's schooling system is failing badly, a major reason for a descent into religious conservatism and economic stagnation.Elmo, the cheerful monster toddler from the original, will be in the Pakistani version, with new local personality touches. But other American favourites such as Count von Count \u2013 a lovable vampire who would rather count telephone rings than answer the phone \u2013 will make way for local characters in SimSim Humara (\"Ours\"), the Pakistani edition.The programme, which will start filming this summer in Lahore and begin airing in the autumn, is targeted particularly at deprived children outside the big cities and will be shown on the national state broadcaster, PTV, so it should be available even in the smallest village. Following the Sesame Street formula, each show will pick one word and one number to highlight.\"The idea is to prepare and inspire a child to go on the path of learning, and inspire the parents of the child to think that the child must be educated,\" said Faizaan Peerzada, the chief operating officer at the Lahore-based Rafi Peer Theatre Workshop, which was awarded the commission for the project in collaboration with Sesame Workshop, the creator of the American show. \"This is a very serious business, the education of the children of Pakistan at a critical time.\"The show will have strong female characters and carry an implicit message of tolerance but will feature no pro-American propaganda or overt challenge to hardline religious sentiment. Under Barack Obama, US civilian assistance to Pakistan has tripled to $1.5bn a year but the money does not seem to have made much obvious impact. The Pakistani Sesame Street could turn out to be the most visible American aid project in Pakistan in recent years.The $20m US grant will produce the Pakistani Sesame Street for four years, with 78 episodes in Urdu and 56 in regional languages, a radio show, mobile TV vans to show the programme in remote areas and a travelling Muppet roadshow.Some will criticise the expenditure on a TV programme, but it aims to reach 3 million kids, many more than the same sum spent on school building. The Muppets will also be used to front public service messages on issues such as health, which aim to reach 95 million people.\"Teaching kids early on makes them much more successful when they get to school. And this programme will have the capacity to encourage tolerance, which is so key to what we're trying to do here,\" said Larry Dolan, director of the education office at USAid for Pakistan. \"In terms of bang for the buck, reaching 95 million people is pretty important. This is much more than a TV programme, far more ambitious than a Sesame Street series.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Sesame Street", "Television", "Children's TV", "US television", "US news", "World news", "Obama administration"], "title": "Sesame Street comes to Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-26T09:26:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The US is reducing its military force in Pakistan at the request of Islamabad after US special forces killed Osama bin Laden, the Pentagon has said.More than 200 American troops are in the country helping to train the army in counter-insurgency, but there are also said to be intelligence and special forces there.No details have been given on the size of the reduction, the type of troops involved, nor whether Pakistan has set a new limit on US numbers.Pentagon spokesman Colonel David Lapan said: \"We were recently (within the past two weeks) notified in writing the government of Pakistan wished for the US to reduce its footprint in Pakistan. Accordingly we have begun those reductions.\"The request will be taken as a sign of Islamabad's annoyance that the raid on Bin Laden's compound at Abbottabad was carried out without its knowledge. There have been suspicions in Washington that some in Pakistan knew the al-Qaida leader's hideout.But Pervez Musharraf, the former president of Pakistan, denied that the country's ISI intelligence service knew, at any level, of the presence of the world's most wanted man in the garrison city. However, in an interview with BBC's Newsnight on Wednesday, he admitted that it was \"very difficult to prove non-complicity\".Musharraf said he had been surprised and shocked to discover where Bin Laden had been hiding. He added that neither he nor senior government officials had colluded in providing refuge for the fugitive while he was in power between 1999 and 2007. \"I can't imagine in my wildest dreams that the intelligence agency was doing something without telling me, so therefore there was no complicity at the strategic level.\"However, the intelligence service had demonstrated \"negligence, ineptitude and failure\" in its failure to detect Bin Laden, he said.", "tags": ["US military", "Pakistan", "US news", "Osama bin Laden", "Pervez Musharraf", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "US cuts troop numbers in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-20T06:43:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Taliban has claimed responsibility for a bomb attack on a US convoy in Peshawar, the first attack on Americans in Pakistan since the death of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden on 2 May.A bystander was killed and 12 people, two of them American, were wounded when a blast hit two armoured vehicles as they travelled to the US consulate, which is believed to house a largeCIA station.\"We had warned that we will avenge the martyrdom of Osama,\" a Taliban spokesman, Ahsanullah Ahsan, told Associated Press in a phone call from an undisclosed location. \"We say to the Americans and Nato that we will carry out more deadly attacks and we can do it.\"A US embassy spokesman said the Americans were not seriously hurt. Declan Walsh IslamabadHe did not identify their function, but a police superintendent, Ijaz Khan, said two US security guards were being treated at an American medical facility.The attack took place in University Town, a wealthy neighbourhood inhabited by westerners. US officials said a Taliban suicide bomber had rammed his motorbike into one of the US vehicles. Television pictures showed a white bulletproof jeep that had crashed into an electricity pylon.It was not the first reprisal for Bin Laden's death claimed by the Taliban. A week ago, two suicide bombers killed at least 91 recruits and wounded 100 outside a military training centre in Shabqadar, 10 miles north of Peshawar. On Wednesday. more than 100 heavily armed militants stormed a checkpost on the outskirts of Peshawar, triggering a gunfight that left two police and 15 militants dead.The attack was credited to Lashkar-i-Islam, a criminal-militant group that holds sway in parts of the nearby Khyber tribal agency.Meanwhile, in Islamabad, US officials are trying to patch up their battered relationship with Pakistan's military and intelligence services while refusing to promise that the US will not carry out another unilateral raid similar to the one that killed Bin Laden.On Thursday, the US regional envoy, Marc Grossman, and the CIA deputy chief, Michael Morrell, held meetings with the Pakistan army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, and the head of Pakistani intelligence.Pakistan's military and civilian leaders have expressed outrage and described the Navy Seals' raid in Abbottabad, 35 miles north of Islamabad, as a gross violation of sovereignty. The storm of anger has also served to obscure pressing questions about how Bin Laden managed to shelter inside Pakistan for at least six years.The US is pressing Pakistan to take action against other militant leaders including the al-Qaida number two, Ayman al-Zawahiri, and Sirajuddin Haqqani, a militant warlord responsible for multiple attacks on western forces in Afghanistan.Meanwhile the CIA is combing a trove of computer disks seized from Bin Laden's house for intelligence on al-Qaida militants and future plots.US officials are also checking the computers for any \"smoking gun\" \u2013 an indication that Bin Laden was being sheltered by Pakistani officials \u2013 but say that, so far, no such proof has emerged. Some intelligence gleaned from the disks has already been shared with Pakistan.The highly protected Peshawar consulate, believed to house a major CIA station that assists with drone strikes in the nearby tribal belt, has been hit by the Taliban before.In August 2008, the consul general survived a gun attack on her armoured vehicle as she left her house. In April 2010 militants launched a grenade and gunfire attack on the consulate, killing eight people including security guards but no Americans.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Osama bin Laden", "US news", "US foreign policy", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "US consulate vehicles attacked in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-13T23:01:21Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "If ever an opportunity presented itself for a civilian government to claw back powers it has ceded to an army whose tentacles extend into every part of life in Pakistan, yesterday was the day. The army, and its premier spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI), were facing an unprecedented assault on their competence after the US raid on Abbottabad. Even talk show hosts, the secular mullahs of Pakistan, turned on them.How could Osama bin Laden's presence go undetected for six years in a garrison town that is home to three regimental headquarters and a military academy? How could US helicopters grab their quarry from underneath their noses? Hours before the army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, was due to answer questions like these in a closed session of parliament, the Taliban put\u00a0down\u00a0a\u00a0third amendment for debate: How is it the military failed to protect its own recruits, 66 of whom were among over 80 who died in two suicide bombings in Charsadda, north of Peshawar?Asserting the primacy of civilian control over a failing military is, however, the last thing on the mind of President Asif Zardari. If his period of office has taught us anything, it is that there is a world of difference between strengthening the democratic project and strengthening a civilian government's hand, as one commentator has observed.If the summit of the government's ambition is to see out a full term, then a chastened army becomes the ideal partner. One pretends to govern while the other pretends to protect. But nor is that an answer either. Being the chief of Pakistan's army is a balancing act. He heads an empire that has simultaneously threatened to let the Chinese inspect the rotor parts of the stealth helicopter that crashed into Bin Laden's compound, and given the CIA access to Bin Laden's widows. Bigger trade-offs are in the works. Gen Kayani will continue to resist US pressure to go after three groups that the ISI still consider long-term assets \u2013 Mullah Omar, the Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba. To go after them would be to provoke civil war, the ISI pleads. But the price of pleading impotence may also be high: allowing back all those CIA agents who have just been forced to leave the country, and with them more US operations on sovereign soil.The bottom line is that Islamabad will not change its strategic posture. The irony of the US relationship with Pakistan is that it may not have to, if the military path currently being pursued in Afghanistan fails to blunt the Taliban's offensive. Two armies, one American the other Pakistani, both performing dysfunctionally in this part of the world, need each other.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: Marriage of inconvenience | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-16T23:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I am standing on a roof in the mountains of the Kalash valleys. Below me hundreds of men are screaming and shouting as two small wooden balls are hit up the slopes by opposing teams of players. Women in intricately designed, brightly coloured dresses are looking on, talking and laughing. One player draws back his long wooden club and hammers the ball onward. Cries of joy fill the air.\"What just happened?\" I ask the player. \"We cheated,\" he laughs. \"The ball was lost in the snow so I took a\u00a0ball from my pocket and hit that one. Don't tell the other team. If they knew, we would lose this point.\"The ball flies on up the four-mile-long course, over rivers and up banks. That night, the winning team will sacrifice an ox, paid for by the losers. Everyone will get drunk. It is winter and there is not much to do. The game is chikik gal.In February this year, the Taliban assassinated Pakistan's Christian minister for minorities, Shahbaz Bhatti. He was the only politician representing the non-Muslim populations of Pakistan. His smallest ward was the Kalash, a 3,000-strong animist tribe living in the mountains of the Hindu Kush, in Pakistan's wild northwest frontier. A persistent myth tells of their descent from members of an errant division of Alexander the Great's army, which ripped through the mountains of northern Pakistan more than 2,000 years ago.In Rudyard Kipling's time, the Kalash were known as the \"black Kafirs\" and their land was Kafiristan, the setting for his tale of insanity and idolatry, The Man Who Would be King. The \"red Kafirs\", their neighbours, the subjects of Kipling's story, were brutally converted at the end of the 19th century. They became Nuristanis, \"enlightened ones\", and their rugged mountain land is one of the centres of the war against the Taliban.The Kalash live in three valleys (Bumboret, Birir and Rumbur) by the Afghan border in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. In winter, flights to Chitral, the nearest town, are routinely and consistently cancelled without warning. My journey from Islamabad was by road, through Mardan and Dir up to the Lowari tunnel and then down the other side. In the winter, when the Lowari pass is blocked by snow, the tunnel is the only way of travelling to Chitral by road. Its construction began in 2005 and it is now open for a few hours every day. It is less a tunnel and more a 9km-long cave.But in spite of the constant sense of peril it evokes, the tunnel is changing Chitral and the Kalash valleys. Previously, getting to the nearest city, Peshawar, meant a trip through Afghanistan. Now the tunnel brings supplies from the rest of the country. With access comes fear. \"Extremists use the tunnel to come here,\" says Taj Udeen, a local police commander. \"We have to make sure we know who is coming to our district.\"They certainly knew we were coming. Tourism has dropped off steeply since 9/11 \u2013 in the 1990s thousands of people visited Chitral annually, now that figure is below 100 \u2013 and we were among few outsiders to visit the Kalash valleys in the past year. Desperate to make sure nothing happened to our four-strong team, 10 armed policemen accompanied us. We spent a month in the valleys. They never left our side.For centuries, the Kalash have been fighting to preserve their traditions. People are converted to Islam every year. \"Extremist Muslims prey on weak people and create internal divisions,\" Imran Kabir, a Kalasha polymath (he reveals that he is, variously, a butcher, teacher, writer and junkyard owner) tells me.A local teacher, Akbal Shah, recounts the story of his father, who worked as a frontier policeman and converted to Islam because he was the only Kalash man in an all-Muslim unit. \"He was not educated, so they said to him that if he didn't convert he wouldn't go to heaven. He ended up believing them because he didn't want to stand out. The Muslims are a big majority, they are pressing us everywhere.\" Deathbed conversions are common and people talk of being offered wives and money if they convert. When I interviewed one of the local imams, Nasir Abdul, at his newly built mosque, he spoke of the love he has for the Kalash people before going on to say that he \"hopes they will convert to Islam so that they can go to paradise\". He is a friendly man who does not pay people to convert, but his objective is the same: the end of the Kalasha religion.Not all Muslims in the area feel this way. One convert who everyone calls \"Mullah\" tells me: \"Everyone should be free to believe what they like.\" And while Muslims are not allowed to convert to the Kalash religion, men like Mullah participate in Kalash festivals and rituals in a way that makes you believe that if they could convert back, they would.Wali Khan, the Kalash headmaster of a primary school in Bumboret valley and a charismatic and popular figure, has worked tirelessly to improve the standards of schooling in the valleys (until the 1990s, there were no official schools). His family is typical in that two of his three brothers have converted to Islam (the one who hasn't is confusingly nicknamed Mujahideen). He tells me that for \"two years my brother was living like an imam. But then he got bored and now he is drinking and smoking and dancing!\" Drinking means the local moonshine, tara, which tastes like schnapps, or homemade wine, which tastes like sherry. Kalash dealers routinely and illegally sell both drinks to Muslims.Another source of tension is the aid that the Kalash receive from NGOs and the government. At the centre of this controversy is the Kalasha Dur \u2013 a museum, small hospital, library, hostel and school complex for the Kalash (which Muslims cannot attend), housed within an absurdly Greek-looking palace built by the NGO Greek Volunteers, with help from Greece's government body Hellenic Aid. Greek Volunteers's director, Athanasios Lerounis, a long-time champion of the Kalash and the man who raised the money to build the centre, assures me that though there are \"similarities to the Ionic style\", the building came from \"the local architecture\". The attempted olive growing that goes on is, however, more likely to be an ancient tradition of Athens.In 2009, a Taliban unit stole into the valleys at night and kidnapped Lerounis. They had been tipped off by locals sympathetic to their cause and came to the Kalasha Dur during a\u00a0night when only two security guards were posted. One guard fled while the other stood his ground and was killed. Lerounis was taken swiftly across the Afghan border to Nuristan. The Greek teacher's ransom, thought to be up to \u00a31m, was paid and he returned to Greece. The security services will not let him return to Pakistan because they believe his presence in the country is dangerous. Lerounis, who wants to come back to the valleys, tells me he does not want to talk about the kidnapping because doing so would endanger the Kalash people. Whatever they think of the Taliban's policies, the Kalash stress their neutrality: they are too vulnerable to court trouble.The kidnapping highlights the security risk presented by the lavish Greek building: in a small, rural community, it sticks out. Locals say that there is a Taliban plot to blow up the Kalasha Dur. The building's detractors say that the exclusion of Muslims from the school only adds to the resentment felt by those who feel that the Kalash get too much money from outsiders.Wali Khan used to work with Lerounis compiling a Kalasha alphabet, but left because he didn't like the division the Kalasha Dur had created. \"The Kalash and the Muslims have to get along; they have to live side by side,\" he says. \"So why make a school in which only one kind of person can be taught?\" Lerounis argues that the school was built in response to a need highlighted by the Kalash community: \"I asked them what they wanted and they told me they needed a school\u2026 There are many Muslim schools and many madrasas. The Kalash need this. There is a division because of their tradition, not because of our building.\"The Kalasha Dur's first-aid centre treats Muslims, and Greek Volunteers have also built Muslim schools and secured a clean-water supply that is used by everyone. Yet the suspicion remains that they do as much harm as good. Imran Kabir believes that Lerounis created a culture of dependence so that in the end people \"treated him like a God\". Instead of praying to their maker, Kabir told me, they would pray to Lerounis. Since he has been gone, the Kalash have started helping themselves again, something Lerounis would probably approve of.Nabaig (like Prince, he has no second name) is the first Kalash lawyer. He works in Chitral and, when he is in court, wears a suit and tie that makes you think of Reservoir Dogs. Back in the valleys, in his traditional clothes, he tells me that the United Nations Development Programme money that comes to the valleys \"goes in the pockets of the politicians and higher personalities\". The same is said of the international money that came to the country to help relieve flooding in 2010.\"None of the money came to us,\" says Nabaig, who points out that food is now twice the price as a result.Almost all accounts of the Kalash fixate on the tribe's mythological descent from Alexander the Great. The romance of Alexander's tribe is a key part of Kalash tourism, although \"they did a DNA test and they found no connection\" is a\u00a0familiar refrain here. Lerounis calls the area an \"open museum\"; the valleys' reputation as a Garden of Eden, a lost land of innocent people, meant that a\u00a0summer stop to see the Kalash used to be an adventurous part of the hippie trail. But another form of tourism has developed: young Muslim men from the south, deprived of contact with women their own age, come here to chat up Kalash girls and watch them dance.The government has a confused relationship with the Kalash. Wali Khan says it \"protects the Kalash people very well now because we are a unique culture\". But there is also worry that this kind of cultural tourism can be exploitative. Abdul Sattar, a village elder who has converted to Islam, tells me that \"before, when I was Kalash, I was very happy. But the government and people from the rest of Pakistan were coming here and making us dance and perform. I became a Muslim because I couldn't enjoy performing for outsiders.\"The government's press office in Islamabad sent out a string of mixed messages, telling me the trip was \"very dangerous\" yet repeatedly talking about how wonderful the Kalash were and how thrilled the government was to see journalists coming to the country to cover something other than the war with the Taliban. The constitution protects minorities and the law safeguards the customs of the Kalash. This is how Nabaig wins most of his cases, which involve Kalash alcohol and drug traffickers and disputes between Islamic and Kalash property laws. Still, the lawyer remains unconvinced by the authorities. \"I am worried about what is happening because we are isolated. We are in the minority. We are worried that our traditions won't survive.\"This survival is being safeguarded in interesting ways. There has been a concerted effort in recent years to reproduce as much as possible in order to bolster numbers. That way, if a couple of the children end up being converted, the pain will be less sharp. And, in the end, it is this spirit that will see the Kalash through. Free-minded and intensely aware of their \"unique culture\" they appear to be getting stronger rather than weaker. New roads and new technology often kill cultures such as theirs but the opposite seems to be true.That they have had problems moving from a barter economy to a\u00a0monetary one cannot be denied and that their traditional dependence on goats is becoming less valuable is also true, but the Kalash are using their increased contact with the outside world to educate others. Their language has, for the first time, been put into a written form (they use the English alphabet). Nabaig, who is 29, says that his generation is \"very keen to be Kalash, to preserve our culture. With trade we are gaining facilities. We are feeding our families\". One Kalash teenager told me his culture \"was over\". Almost all his friends contradicted him. Those who go to the big cities to work want to return to the valleys. One of the village kasis (\"guardians of knowledge\") told me that now \"education is very good. When I was younger there were no schools, no roads and no Jeeps. We had no clothes. We had no shoes. Now it is better.\" The Kalash are learning about their culture in order to preserve it. As we look out over the valley and up to Afghanistan, Imran Kabir looks up and says: \"The future is bright. The dark ages are gone.\"Wild Frontiers (wildfrontiers.co.uk) is running a 16-day adventure to the Hindu Kush spring festival, departing 7 May and costing \u00a32,090 land only. Eithad Airways (etihadairways.com) flies London to Islamabad from \u00a3591. The FCO advises against all travel to the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and much of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa", "tags": ["Pakistan holidays", "Taliban", "Rudyard Kipling", "Afghanistan holidays", "Islam", "Travel"], "title": "Culture Kalash in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-06-11T22:40:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two explosions ripped through a busy market in Pakistan's volatile northwestern city of Peshawar, killing at least 34 people and injuring nearly\u00a0100. Police said that the first blast was relatively small and drew rescue workers to the site before a larger explosion rocked the market area a few minutes later causing scores of casualties.Jamal Khan, a 22-year-old student who was rushing to the scene as the second blast occurred, said: \"The explosion was so huge I will never forget it all my life. It was deafening, and then there was a cloud of dust and smoke. When the dust settled, I saw people crying for help and body parts scattered everywhere.\"No group claimed immediate responsibility for the bombing, but the Pakistani Taliban have pledged to carry out attacks in retaliation for the American special forces raid that killed Osama bin Laden in an army town outside Islamabad last month.Initial reports indicated the second blast in Peshawar was caused by explosives placed in a vehicle and detonated by remote control, said Dost Mohammed, a senior local police official. The source of the first explosion was unknown.The attack took place across the street from the offices of the top political agent to Khyber, part of Pakistan's volatile tribal region, and a short distance from army housing units. Peshawar borders the tribal region and has been repeatedly hit by bombings over the past few years.Doctor Mohammed Farooq said many of the victims were so badly burned they were difficult to identify and that the dead included at least one journalist. Four more journalists and at least 10 police officers were also injured, he said.The attack took place as the CIA director, Leon Panetta, and the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, visited the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, 95 miles to the east, to speak separately with senior Pakistani officials about sharing intelligence.Panetta's meetings were intended to focus on the size and scope of future American intelligence activities. The Bin Laden operation plunged an already strained relationship between the CIA and Pakistan's main intelligence agency, the ISI, to a new low. It has also threatened to undermine the co-operation between the two countries that is pivotal to the continued fight against al-Qaida and Taliban militants battling Nato forces in Afghanistan.In an attempt to rebuild their relationship, Washington and Islamabad have agreed to form a joint intelligence team to track down terrorists inside Pakistan, drawing in part from the records taken from Bin Laden's lair during the raid.\"We both want stability in Afghanistan and in Pakistan,\" said the Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza, Gilani yesterday. \"Our only aim is to support the peace process, which is Afghan led.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: fatal explosions in Peshawar"},{"date": "2011-06-30T14:37:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has stopped US drone flights from a remote airbase in the western province of Balochistan and ordered US personnel to vacate it, the defence minister has said.\"We have told them to leave the Shamsi airbase,\" Chaudhry Ahmed Mukhtar said on Wednesday night, adding that US personnel had already started to shift equipment from the base.A US embassy spokesman declined to comment, referring queries to Washington.Shamsi is located in a remote valley 350 miles south-west of Waziristan, where most of the CIA-directed Predator and Reaper drone strikes against al-Qaida and Taliban targets take place.The closure of the base is a blow to a covert programme that has killed up to 2,500 people since its inception seven years ago and forms a cornerstone of President Barack Obama's strategy to flush al-Qaida from its Pakistani havens.The US insists it will press ahead with the strikes. In unusually direct comments, Obama's counter-terrorism adviser John Brennan said on Wednesday that the US would continue to \"deliver precise and overwhelming force against al-Qaida\" in the tribal areas.The attacks are likely to continue from CIA bases in Afghanistan \u2013 the latest took place on 20 June in Kurram tribal agency. A senior Pakistani military official said the US had not used Shamsi for \"several months\" and was already flying drones across the border.Senior civilian officials said they closed Shamsi in retaliation for an American reduction of coalition support funds, a multibillion-dollar subsidy for Pakistani military operations. The defence minister said US forces had already vacated Ghazi airbase, 40 miles north-west of Islamabad.A US official in Pakistan accused the government of engaging in \"diplomacy by headline\" but refused to comment further.The spat marks another low point in Pakistan-US relations after the raid to kill Osama bin Laden on 2 May and the furore over a CIA agent, Raymond Davis, who shot dead two men in Lahore in January.Pakistan's military and the ISI intelligence service have sought to restrict CIA activities by seeking lists of spies, closing intelligence cooperation centres, and restricting visas for US personnel.The US, meanwhile, is trying to repair the relationship, recognising Pakistan's importance in fighting al-Qaida and, perhaps, reaching a peace settlement in Afghanistan.Although at least 120 military trainers have been ordered to leave the country, the US recently agreed to replace two Orion surveillance planes that were destroyed in a militant assault on a Karachi naval base in May.The CIA use of Shamsi is controversial in Pakistan, where drone strikes are extremely unpopular. A recent Pew poll found 97% of respondents viewed them negatively.Shamsi was built by Arab Sheikhs from the United Arab Emirates to facilitate hunting falcon trips for the houbara bustard, a rare bird some Arabs believe has aphrodisiac properties. The CIA presence was detected in 2004, when the first drone strikes occurred. Google Earth images showed Predator drones parked on the runway.Since then CIA contractors have been stationed at Shamsi, fuelling and arming Predator and the newer Reaper drones. Operators at the base control the pilotless planes during takeoff but control quickly passes to a \"reachback operator\"sitting at a video screen thousands of miles away at the CIA headquarters in Langley Virginia.The drones use different warheads, from Hellfire missiles that travel at supersonic speeds to laser-guided Stingers and other missiles using thermobaric warheads that create percussion waves which can penetrate deep bunkers and caves.According to the New America Foundation, which tracks drone strikes, there have been 253 since 2004, with 42 so far this year. Various press reports put the death toll from the strikes at between 1,557 and 2,464.The varying figures highlight the difficulty of obtaining accurate information from the tribal belt, which is out of bounds to foreigners and most local reporters, and where Taliban fighters take control of drone attack sites immediately after the strikes occur.The most contentious issue is civilian casualties. The New American foundation, based on press reporters, estimates non-militant deaths at 20% of the total, although in 2010 this fell to 5%.Pakistan's military has previously tried to distance itself from Shamsi by claiming that the airbase was the territory of the United Arab Emirates. However, base security and other logistics have been provided by Pakistani forces.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US military", "US news", "Al-Qaida", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan orders US out of drone base"},{"date": "2011-04-07T17:30:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There's no Cookie Monster, no Big Bird and no Count von Count.But Pakistani children will soon start experiencing what millions in the west have done for more than four decades \u2013 the joys of Sesame Street.In a $20m (\u00a312m) remake of the classic American children's programme, the setting for the show has moved from the streets of New York to a lively village in Pakistan with a roadside tea and snacks stall, known as a dhaba, some fancy houses with overhanging balconies along with simple dwellings, and residents hanging out on their verandas.The Pakistani version, in which characters will speak mostly in Urdu, will feature Rani, a cute six-year-old Muppet, the child of a peasant farmer, with pigtails, flowers in her hair and a smart blue-and-white school uniform. Her curiosity and questions about the world will, it is hoped, make her a role model for Pakistani children.The financing for the series comes from USAid, the economic assistance arm of the US government, which aims to help the country's young learn some basic words and numbers through Sesame Street's fun style of education. Pakistan's schooling system is failing badly, a major reason for a descent into religious conservatism and economic stagnation.Elmo, the cheerful monster toddler from the original, will be in the Pakistani version, with new local personality touches. But other American favourites such as Count von Count \u2013 a lovable vampire who would rather count telephone rings than answer the phone \u2013 will make way for local characters in SimSim Humara (\"Ours\"), the Pakistani edition.The programme, which will start filming this summer in Lahore and begin airing in the autumn, is targeted particularly at deprived children outside the big cities and will be shown on the national state broadcaster, PTV, so it should be available even in the smallest village. Following the Sesame Street formula, each show will pick one word and one number to highlight.\"The idea is to prepare and inspire a child to go on the path of learning, and inspire the parents of the child to think that the child must be educated,\" said Faizaan Peerzada, the chief operating officer at the Lahore-based Rafi Peer Theatre Workshop, which was awarded the commission for the project in collaboration with Sesame Workshop, the creator of the American show. \"This is a very serious business, the education of the children of Pakistan at a critical time.\"The show will have strong female characters and carry an implicit message of tolerance but will feature no pro-American propaganda or overt challenge to hardline religious sentiment. Under Barack Obama, US civilian assistance to Pakistan has tripled to $1.5bn a year but the money does not seem to have made much obvious impact. The Pakistani Sesame Street could turn out to be the most visible American aid project in Pakistan in recent years.The $20m US grant will produce the Pakistani Sesame Street for four years, with 78 episodes in Urdu and 56 in regional languages, a radio show, mobile TV vans to show the programme in remote areas and a travelling Muppet roadshow.Some will criticise the expenditure on a TV programme, but it aims to reach 3 million kids, many more than the same sum spent on school building. The Muppets will also be used to front public service messages on issues such as health, which aim to reach 95 million people.\"Teaching kids early on makes them much more successful when they get to school. And this programme will have the capacity to encourage tolerance, which is so key to what we're trying to do here,\" said Larry Dolan, director of the education office at USAid for Pakistan. \"In terms of bang for the buck, reaching 95 million people is pretty important. This is much more than a TV programme, far more ambitious than a Sesame Street series.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Sesame Street", "Television", "Children's TV", "US television", "US news", "World news", "Obama administration"], "title": "Sesame Street comes to Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-26T09:26:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The US is reducing its military force in Pakistan at the request of Islamabad after US special forces killed Osama bin Laden, the Pentagon has said.More than 200 American troops are in the country helping to train the army in counter-insurgency, but there are also said to be intelligence and special forces there.No details have been given on the size of the reduction, the type of troops involved, nor whether Pakistan has set a new limit on US numbers.Pentagon spokesman Colonel David Lapan said: \"We were recently (within the past two weeks) notified in writing the government of Pakistan wished for the US to reduce its footprint in Pakistan. Accordingly we have begun those reductions.\"The request will be taken as a sign of Islamabad's annoyance that the raid on Bin Laden's compound at Abbottabad was carried out without its knowledge. There have been suspicions in Washington that some in Pakistan knew the al-Qaida leader's hideout.But Pervez Musharraf, the former president of Pakistan, denied that the country's ISI intelligence service knew, at any level, of the presence of the world's most wanted man in the garrison city. However, in an interview with BBC's Newsnight on Wednesday, he admitted that it was \"very difficult to prove non-complicity\".Musharraf said he had been surprised and shocked to discover where Bin Laden had been hiding. He added that neither he nor senior government officials had colluded in providing refuge for the fugitive while he was in power between 1999 and 2007. \"I can't imagine in my wildest dreams that the intelligence agency was doing something without telling me, so therefore there was no complicity at the strategic level.\"However, the intelligence service had demonstrated \"negligence, ineptitude and failure\" in its failure to detect Bin Laden, he said.", "tags": ["US military", "Pakistan", "US news", "Osama bin Laden", "Pervez Musharraf", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "US cuts troop numbers in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-20T06:43:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Taliban has claimed responsibility for a bomb attack on a US convoy in Peshawar, the first attack on Americans in Pakistan since the death of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden on 2 May.A bystander was killed and 12 people, two of them American, were wounded when a blast hit two armoured vehicles as they travelled to the US consulate, which is believed to house a largeCIA station.\"We had warned that we will avenge the martyrdom of Osama,\" a Taliban spokesman, Ahsanullah Ahsan, told Associated Press in a phone call from an undisclosed location. \"We say to the Americans and Nato that we will carry out more deadly attacks and we can do it.\"A US embassy spokesman said the Americans were not seriously hurt. Declan Walsh IslamabadHe did not identify their function, but a police superintendent, Ijaz Khan, said two US security guards were being treated at an American medical facility.The attack took place in University Town, a wealthy neighbourhood inhabited by westerners. US officials said a Taliban suicide bomber had rammed his motorbike into one of the US vehicles. Television pictures showed a white bulletproof jeep that had crashed into an electricity pylon.It was not the first reprisal for Bin Laden's death claimed by the Taliban. A week ago, two suicide bombers killed at least 91 recruits and wounded 100 outside a military training centre in Shabqadar, 10 miles north of Peshawar. On Wednesday. more than 100 heavily armed militants stormed a checkpost on the outskirts of Peshawar, triggering a gunfight that left two police and 15 militants dead.The attack was credited to Lashkar-i-Islam, a criminal-militant group that holds sway in parts of the nearby Khyber tribal agency.Meanwhile, in Islamabad, US officials are trying to patch up their battered relationship with Pakistan's military and intelligence services while refusing to promise that the US will not carry out another unilateral raid similar to the one that killed Bin Laden.On Thursday, the US regional envoy, Marc Grossman, and the CIA deputy chief, Michael Morrell, held meetings with the Pakistan army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, and the head of Pakistani intelligence.Pakistan's military and civilian leaders have expressed outrage and described the Navy Seals' raid in Abbottabad, 35 miles north of Islamabad, as a gross violation of sovereignty. The storm of anger has also served to obscure pressing questions about how Bin Laden managed to shelter inside Pakistan for at least six years.The US is pressing Pakistan to take action against other militant leaders including the al-Qaida number two, Ayman al-Zawahiri, and Sirajuddin Haqqani, a militant warlord responsible for multiple attacks on western forces in Afghanistan.Meanwhile the CIA is combing a trove of computer disks seized from Bin Laden's house for intelligence on al-Qaida militants and future plots.US officials are also checking the computers for any \"smoking gun\" \u2013 an indication that Bin Laden was being sheltered by Pakistani officials \u2013 but say that, so far, no such proof has emerged. Some intelligence gleaned from the disks has already been shared with Pakistan.The highly protected Peshawar consulate, believed to house a major CIA station that assists with drone strikes in the nearby tribal belt, has been hit by the Taliban before.In August 2008, the consul general survived a gun attack on her armoured vehicle as she left her house. In April 2010 militants launched a grenade and gunfire attack on the consulate, killing eight people including security guards but no Americans.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Osama bin Laden", "US news", "US foreign policy", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "US consulate vehicles attacked in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-13T22:41:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "14 JuneA car bomb outside the US consulate in Karachi kills 12.25 DecemberPresident Pervez Musharraf escapes injury in a suicide bomb attack which kills 15.20 March43 people are killed when a bomb explodes at a Shia Muslim shrine in south Balochistan province.11 April 57 people are killed in a suicide bomb attack on a Sunni Muslim prayer service in Karachi.July-November The Red Mosque in Islamabad is held in a week-long siege by an Islamist group. 105 die when the mosque is stormed by government troops on 10 July, leading to a wave of suicide bombings, killing at least 400 between July and November.10 January22 are killed in a suicide bombing targeting policemen standing outside the high court in Lahore.12 OctoberA suicide bomber in his early teens targets a military vehicle passing through a market in Shangla district, killing 41.15 October39 are killed in five separate Taliban attacks on police and government targets across Pakistan.5 AprilFive Taliban suicide bombers attack the US consulate in Peshawar, but fail to breach security. A truck bomb causes damage to building in an attack that claims seven lives.10 JulyA suicide attack and a car bomb kill 102 people in village of Yakaghund.5 November68 worshippers are killed as a suicide bomber targets a mosque during Friday prayers in Darra Adam Khel. Four people die in a grenade attack at another mosque in the region later the same day. A spokesman for the Pakistan Taliban says the group was responsible for the attack.1 AprilTwo suicide bombers strike a festival at a Sufi Muslim shrine in the Dera Ghazi Khan district. 50 die in an attack claimed by the Taliban.26 - 28 AprilThree roadside bombs in the space of three days kill seven Pakistani navy personnel travelling by bus in Karachi.13 May80 people die in an attack on a paramilitary Frontier Corps training academy in Charsadda, north-west Pakistan. The Pakistani Taliban claim responsibility for the first major bombing in Pakistan following the death of Osama Bin Laden. \"It's the first revenge for the martyrdom of Bin Laden. There will be more,\" says Taliban spokesman Ehsanullah Ehsan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "A timeline of terror in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-13T23:01:21Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "If ever an opportunity presented itself for a civilian government to claw back powers it has ceded to an army whose tentacles extend into every part of life in Pakistan, yesterday was the day. The army, and its premier spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI), were facing an unprecedented assault on their competence after the US raid on Abbottabad. Even talk show hosts, the secular mullahs of Pakistan, turned on them.How could Osama bin Laden's presence go undetected for six years in a garrison town that is home to three regimental headquarters and a military academy? How could US helicopters grab their quarry from underneath their noses? Hours before the army chief, Gen Ashfaq Kayani, was due to answer questions like these in a closed session of parliament, the Taliban put\u00a0down\u00a0a\u00a0third amendment for debate: How is it the military failed to protect its own recruits, 66 of whom were among over 80 who died in two suicide bombings in Charsadda, north of Peshawar?Asserting the primacy of civilian control over a failing military is, however, the last thing on the mind of President Asif Zardari. If his period of office has taught us anything, it is that there is a world of difference between strengthening the democratic project and strengthening a civilian government's hand, as one commentator has observed.If the summit of the government's ambition is to see out a full term, then a chastened army becomes the ideal partner. One pretends to govern while the other pretends to protect. But nor is that an answer either. Being the chief of Pakistan's army is a balancing act. He heads an empire that has simultaneously threatened to let the Chinese inspect the rotor parts of the stealth helicopter that crashed into Bin Laden's compound, and given the CIA access to Bin Laden's widows. Bigger trade-offs are in the works. Gen Kayani will continue to resist US pressure to go after three groups that the ISI still consider long-term assets \u2013 Mullah Omar, the Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Taiba. To go after them would be to provoke civil war, the ISI pleads. But the price of pleading impotence may also be high: allowing back all those CIA agents who have just been forced to leave the country, and with them more US operations on sovereign soil.The bottom line is that Islamabad will not change its strategic posture. The irony of the US relationship with Pakistan is that it may not have to, if the military path currently being pursued in Afghanistan fails to blunt the Taliban's offensive. Two armies, one American the other Pakistani, both performing dysfunctionally in this part of the world, need each other.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: Marriage of inconvenience | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-16T23:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "I am standing on a roof in the mountains of the Kalash valleys. Below me hundreds of men are screaming and shouting as two small wooden balls are hit up the slopes by opposing teams of players. Women in intricately designed, brightly coloured dresses are looking on, talking and laughing. One player draws back his long wooden club and hammers the ball onward. Cries of joy fill the air.\"What just happened?\" I ask the player. \"We cheated,\" he laughs. \"The ball was lost in the snow so I took a\u00a0ball from my pocket and hit that one. Don't tell the other team. If they knew, we would lose this point.\"The ball flies on up the four-mile-long course, over rivers and up banks. That night, the winning team will sacrifice an ox, paid for by the losers. Everyone will get drunk. It is winter and there is not much to do. The game is chikik gal.In February this year, the Taliban assassinated Pakistan's Christian minister for minorities, Shahbaz Bhatti. He was the only politician representing the non-Muslim populations of Pakistan. His smallest ward was the Kalash, a 3,000-strong animist tribe living in the mountains of the Hindu Kush, in Pakistan's wild northwest frontier. A persistent myth tells of their descent from members of an errant division of Alexander the Great's army, which ripped through the mountains of northern Pakistan more than 2,000 years ago.In Rudyard Kipling's time, the Kalash were known as the \"black Kafirs\" and their land was Kafiristan, the setting for his tale of insanity and idolatry, The Man Who Would be King. The \"red Kafirs\", their neighbours, the subjects of Kipling's story, were brutally converted at the end of the 19th century. They became Nuristanis, \"enlightened ones\", and their rugged mountain land is one of the centres of the war against the Taliban.The Kalash live in three valleys (Bumboret, Birir and Rumbur) by the Afghan border in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. In winter, flights to Chitral, the nearest town, are routinely and consistently cancelled without warning. My journey from Islamabad was by road, through Mardan and Dir up to the Lowari tunnel and then down the other side. In the winter, when the Lowari pass is blocked by snow, the tunnel is the only way of travelling to Chitral by road. Its construction began in 2005 and it is now open for a few hours every day. It is less a tunnel and more a 9km-long cave.But in spite of the constant sense of peril it evokes, the tunnel is changing Chitral and the Kalash valleys. Previously, getting to the nearest city, Peshawar, meant a trip through Afghanistan. Now the tunnel brings supplies from the rest of the country. With access comes fear. \"Extremists use the tunnel to come here,\" says Taj Udeen, a local police commander. \"We have to make sure we know who is coming to our district.\"They certainly knew we were coming. Tourism has dropped off steeply since 9/11 \u2013 in the 1990s thousands of people visited Chitral annually, now that figure is below 100 \u2013 and we were among few outsiders to visit the Kalash valleys in the past year. Desperate to make sure nothing happened to our four-strong team, 10 armed policemen accompanied us. We spent a month in the valleys. They never left our side.For centuries, the Kalash have been fighting to preserve their traditions. People are converted to Islam every year. \"Extremist Muslims prey on weak people and create internal divisions,\" Imran Kabir, a Kalasha polymath (he reveals that he is, variously, a butcher, teacher, writer and junkyard owner) tells me.A local teacher, Akbal Shah, recounts the story of his father, who worked as a frontier policeman and converted to Islam because he was the only Kalash man in an all-Muslim unit. \"He was not educated, so they said to him that if he didn't convert he wouldn't go to heaven. He ended up believing them because he didn't want to stand out. The Muslims are a big majority, they are pressing us everywhere.\" Deathbed conversions are common and people talk of being offered wives and money if they convert. When I interviewed one of the local imams, Nasir Abdul, at his newly built mosque, he spoke of the love he has for the Kalash people before going on to say that he \"hopes they will convert to Islam so that they can go to paradise\". He is a friendly man who does not pay people to convert, but his objective is the same: the end of the Kalasha religion.Not all Muslims in the area feel this way. One convert who everyone calls \"Mullah\" tells me: \"Everyone should be free to believe what they like.\" And while Muslims are not allowed to convert to the Kalash religion, men like Mullah participate in Kalash festivals and rituals in a way that makes you believe that if they could convert back, they would.Wali Khan, the Kalash headmaster of a primary school in Bumboret valley and a charismatic and popular figure, has worked tirelessly to improve the standards of schooling in the valleys (until the 1990s, there were no official schools). His family is typical in that two of his three brothers have converted to Islam (the one who hasn't is confusingly nicknamed Mujahideen). He tells me that for \"two years my brother was living like an imam. But then he got bored and now he is drinking and smoking and dancing!\" Drinking means the local moonshine, tara, which tastes like schnapps, or homemade wine, which tastes like sherry. Kalash dealers routinely and illegally sell both drinks to Muslims.Another source of tension is the aid that the Kalash receive from NGOs and the government. At the centre of this controversy is the Kalasha Dur \u2013 a museum, small hospital, library, hostel and school complex for the Kalash (which Muslims cannot attend), housed within an absurdly Greek-looking palace built by the NGO Greek Volunteers, with help from Greece's government body Hellenic Aid. Greek Volunteers's director, Athanasios Lerounis, a long-time champion of the Kalash and the man who raised the money to build the centre, assures me that though there are \"similarities to the Ionic style\", the building came from \"the local architecture\". The attempted olive growing that goes on is, however, more likely to be an ancient tradition of Athens.In 2009, a Taliban unit stole into the valleys at night and kidnapped Lerounis. They had been tipped off by locals sympathetic to their cause and came to the Kalasha Dur during a\u00a0night when only two security guards were posted. One guard fled while the other stood his ground and was killed. Lerounis was taken swiftly across the Afghan border to Nuristan. The Greek teacher's ransom, thought to be up to \u00a31m, was paid and he returned to Greece. The security services will not let him return to Pakistan because they believe his presence in the country is dangerous. Lerounis, who wants to come back to the valleys, tells me he does not want to talk about the kidnapping because doing so would endanger the Kalash people. Whatever they think of the Taliban's policies, the Kalash stress their neutrality: they are too vulnerable to court trouble.The kidnapping highlights the security risk presented by the lavish Greek building: in a small, rural community, it sticks out. Locals say that there is a Taliban plot to blow up the Kalasha Dur. The building's detractors say that the exclusion of Muslims from the school only adds to the resentment felt by those who feel that the Kalash get too much money from outsiders.Wali Khan used to work with Lerounis compiling a Kalasha alphabet, but left because he didn't like the division the Kalasha Dur had created. \"The Kalash and the Muslims have to get along; they have to live side by side,\" he says. \"So why make a school in which only one kind of person can be taught?\" Lerounis argues that the school was built in response to a need highlighted by the Kalash community: \"I asked them what they wanted and they told me they needed a school\u2026 There are many Muslim schools and many madrasas. The Kalash need this. There is a division because of their tradition, not because of our building.\"The Kalasha Dur's first-aid centre treats Muslims, and Greek Volunteers have also built Muslim schools and secured a clean-water supply that is used by everyone. Yet the suspicion remains that they do as much harm as good. Imran Kabir believes that Lerounis created a culture of dependence so that in the end people \"treated him like a God\". Instead of praying to their maker, Kabir told me, they would pray to Lerounis. Since he has been gone, the Kalash have started helping themselves again, something Lerounis would probably approve of.Nabaig (like Prince, he has no second name) is the first Kalash lawyer. He works in Chitral and, when he is in court, wears a suit and tie that makes you think of Reservoir Dogs. Back in the valleys, in his traditional clothes, he tells me that the United Nations Development Programme money that comes to the valleys \"goes in the pockets of the politicians and higher personalities\". The same is said of the international money that came to the country to help relieve flooding in 2010.\"None of the money came to us,\" says Nabaig, who points out that food is now twice the price as a result.Almost all accounts of the Kalash fixate on the tribe's mythological descent from Alexander the Great. The romance of Alexander's tribe is a key part of Kalash tourism, although \"they did a DNA test and they found no connection\" is a\u00a0familiar refrain here. Lerounis calls the area an \"open museum\"; the valleys' reputation as a Garden of Eden, a lost land of innocent people, meant that a\u00a0summer stop to see the Kalash used to be an adventurous part of the hippie trail. But another form of tourism has developed: young Muslim men from the south, deprived of contact with women their own age, come here to chat up Kalash girls and watch them dance.The government has a confused relationship with the Kalash. Wali Khan says it \"protects the Kalash people very well now because we are a unique culture\". But there is also worry that this kind of cultural tourism can be exploitative. Abdul Sattar, a village elder who has converted to Islam, tells me that \"before, when I was Kalash, I was very happy. But the government and people from the rest of Pakistan were coming here and making us dance and perform. I became a Muslim because I couldn't enjoy performing for outsiders.\"The government's press office in Islamabad sent out a string of mixed messages, telling me the trip was \"very dangerous\" yet repeatedly talking about how wonderful the Kalash were and how thrilled the government was to see journalists coming to the country to cover something other than the war with the Taliban. The constitution protects minorities and the law safeguards the customs of the Kalash. This is how Nabaig wins most of his cases, which involve Kalash alcohol and drug traffickers and disputes between Islamic and Kalash property laws. Still, the lawyer remains unconvinced by the authorities. \"I am worried about what is happening because we are isolated. We are in the minority. We are worried that our traditions won't survive.\"This survival is being safeguarded in interesting ways. There has been a concerted effort in recent years to reproduce as much as possible in order to bolster numbers. That way, if a couple of the children end up being converted, the pain will be less sharp. And, in the end, it is this spirit that will see the Kalash through. Free-minded and intensely aware of their \"unique culture\" they appear to be getting stronger rather than weaker. New roads and new technology often kill cultures such as theirs but the opposite seems to be true.That they have had problems moving from a barter economy to a\u00a0monetary one cannot be denied and that their traditional dependence on goats is becoming less valuable is also true, but the Kalash are using their increased contact with the outside world to educate others. Their language has, for the first time, been put into a written form (they use the English alphabet). Nabaig, who is 29, says that his generation is \"very keen to be Kalash, to preserve our culture. With trade we are gaining facilities. We are feeding our families\". One Kalash teenager told me his culture \"was over\". Almost all his friends contradicted him. Those who go to the big cities to work want to return to the valleys. One of the village kasis (\"guardians of knowledge\") told me that now \"education is very good. When I was younger there were no schools, no roads and no Jeeps. We had no clothes. We had no shoes. Now it is better.\" The Kalash are learning about their culture in order to preserve it. As we look out over the valley and up to Afghanistan, Imran Kabir looks up and says: \"The future is bright. The dark ages are gone.\"Wild Frontiers (wildfrontiers.co.uk) is running a 16-day adventure to the Hindu Kush spring festival, departing 7 May and costing \u00a32,090 land only. Eithad Airways (etihadairways.com) flies London to Islamabad from \u00a3591. The FCO advises against all travel to the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, and much of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa", "tags": ["Pakistan holidays", "Taliban", "Rudyard Kipling", "Afghanistan holidays", "Islam", "Travel"], "title": "Culture Kalash in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-06-11T22:40:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two explosions ripped through a busy market in Pakistan's volatile northwestern city of Peshawar, killing at least 34 people and injuring nearly\u00a0100. Police said that the first blast was relatively small and drew rescue workers to the site before a larger explosion rocked the market area a few minutes later causing scores of casualties.Jamal Khan, a 22-year-old student who was rushing to the scene as the second blast occurred, said: \"The explosion was so huge I will never forget it all my life. It was deafening, and then there was a cloud of dust and smoke. When the dust settled, I saw people crying for help and body parts scattered everywhere.\"No group claimed immediate responsibility for the bombing, but the Pakistani Taliban have pledged to carry out attacks in retaliation for the American special forces raid that killed Osama bin Laden in an army town outside Islamabad last month.Initial reports indicated the second blast in Peshawar was caused by explosives placed in a vehicle and detonated by remote control, said Dost Mohammed, a senior local police official. The source of the first explosion was unknown.The attack took place across the street from the offices of the top political agent to Khyber, part of Pakistan's volatile tribal region, and a short distance from army housing units. Peshawar borders the tribal region and has been repeatedly hit by bombings over the past few years.Doctor Mohammed Farooq said many of the victims were so badly burned they were difficult to identify and that the dead included at least one journalist. Four more journalists and at least 10 police officers were also injured, he said.The attack took place as the CIA director, Leon Panetta, and the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, visited the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, 95 miles to the east, to speak separately with senior Pakistani officials about sharing intelligence.Panetta's meetings were intended to focus on the size and scope of future American intelligence activities. The Bin Laden operation plunged an already strained relationship between the CIA and Pakistan's main intelligence agency, the ISI, to a new low. It has also threatened to undermine the co-operation between the two countries that is pivotal to the continued fight against al-Qaida and Taliban militants battling Nato forces in Afghanistan.In an attempt to rebuild their relationship, Washington and Islamabad have agreed to form a joint intelligence team to track down terrorists inside Pakistan, drawing in part from the records taken from Bin Laden's lair during the raid.\"We both want stability in Afghanistan and in Pakistan,\" said the Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza, Gilani yesterday. \"Our only aim is to support the peace process, which is Afghan led.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: fatal explosions in Peshawar"},{"date": "2011-06-30T14:37:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has stopped US drone flights from a remote airbase in the western province of Balochistan and ordered US personnel to vacate it, the defence minister has said.\"We have told them to leave the Shamsi airbase,\" Chaudhry Ahmed Mukhtar said on Wednesday night, adding that US personnel had already started to shift equipment from the base.A US embassy spokesman declined to comment, referring queries to Washington.Shamsi is located in a remote valley 350 miles south-west of Waziristan, where most of the CIA-directed Predator and Reaper drone strikes against al-Qaida and Taliban targets take place.The closure of the base is a blow to a covert programme that has killed up to 2,500 people since its inception seven years ago and forms a cornerstone of President Barack Obama's strategy to flush al-Qaida from its Pakistani havens.The US insists it will press ahead with the strikes. In unusually direct comments, Obama's counter-terrorism adviser John Brennan said on Wednesday that the US would continue to \"deliver precise and overwhelming force against al-Qaida\" in the tribal areas.The attacks are likely to continue from CIA bases in Afghanistan \u2013 the latest took place on 20 June in Kurram tribal agency. A senior Pakistani military official said the US had not used Shamsi for \"several months\" and was already flying drones across the border.Senior civilian officials said they closed Shamsi in retaliation for an American reduction of coalition support funds, a multibillion-dollar subsidy for Pakistani military operations. The defence minister said US forces had already vacated Ghazi airbase, 40 miles north-west of Islamabad.A US official in Pakistan accused the government of engaging in \"diplomacy by headline\" but refused to comment further.The spat marks another low point in Pakistan-US relations after the raid to kill Osama bin Laden on 2 May and the furore over a CIA agent, Raymond Davis, who shot dead two men in Lahore in January.Pakistan's military and the ISI intelligence service have sought to restrict CIA activities by seeking lists of spies, closing intelligence cooperation centres, and restricting visas for US personnel.The US, meanwhile, is trying to repair the relationship, recognising Pakistan's importance in fighting al-Qaida and, perhaps, reaching a peace settlement in Afghanistan.Although at least 120 military trainers have been ordered to leave the country, the US recently agreed to replace two Orion surveillance planes that were destroyed in a militant assault on a Karachi naval base in May.The CIA use of Shamsi is controversial in Pakistan, where drone strikes are extremely unpopular. A recent Pew poll found 97% of respondents viewed them negatively.Shamsi was built by Arab Sheikhs from the United Arab Emirates to facilitate hunting falcon trips for the houbara bustard, a rare bird some Arabs believe has aphrodisiac properties. The CIA presence was detected in 2004, when the first drone strikes occurred. Google Earth images showed Predator drones parked on the runway.Since then CIA contractors have been stationed at Shamsi, fuelling and arming Predator and the newer Reaper drones. Operators at the base control the pilotless planes during takeoff but control quickly passes to a \"reachback operator\"sitting at a video screen thousands of miles away at the CIA headquarters in Langley Virginia.The drones use different warheads, from Hellfire missiles that travel at supersonic speeds to laser-guided Stingers and other missiles using thermobaric warheads that create percussion waves which can penetrate deep bunkers and caves.According to the New America Foundation, which tracks drone strikes, there have been 253 since 2004, with 42 so far this year. Various press reports put the death toll from the strikes at between 1,557 and 2,464.The varying figures highlight the difficulty of obtaining accurate information from the tribal belt, which is out of bounds to foreigners and most local reporters, and where Taliban fighters take control of drone attack sites immediately after the strikes occur.The most contentious issue is civilian casualties. The New American foundation, based on press reporters, estimates non-militant deaths at 20% of the total, although in 2010 this fell to 5%.Pakistan's military has previously tried to distance itself from Shamsi by claiming that the airbase was the territory of the United Arab Emirates. However, base security and other logistics have been provided by Pakistani forces.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US military", "US news", "Al-Qaida", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan orders US out of drone base"},{"date": "2011-04-07T17:30:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There's no Cookie Monster, no Big Bird and no Count von Count.But Pakistani children will soon start experiencing what millions in the west have done for more than four decades \u2013 the joys of Sesame Street.In a $20m (\u00a312m) remake of the classic American children's programme, the setting for the show has moved from the streets of New York to a lively village in Pakistan with a roadside tea and snacks stall, known as a dhaba, some fancy houses with overhanging balconies along with simple dwellings, and residents hanging out on their verandas.The Pakistani version, in which characters will speak mostly in Urdu, will feature Rani, a cute six-year-old Muppet, the child of a peasant farmer, with pigtails, flowers in her hair and a smart blue-and-white school uniform. Her curiosity and questions about the world will, it is hoped, make her a role model for Pakistani children.The financing for the series comes from USAid, the economic assistance arm of the US government, which aims to help the country's young learn some basic words and numbers through Sesame Street's fun style of education. Pakistan's schooling system is failing badly, a major reason for a descent into religious conservatism and economic stagnation.Elmo, the cheerful monster toddler from the original, will be in the Pakistani version, with new local personality touches. But other American favourites such as Count von Count \u2013 a lovable vampire who would rather count telephone rings than answer the phone \u2013 will make way for local characters in SimSim Humara (\"Ours\"), the Pakistani edition.The programme, which will start filming this summer in Lahore and begin airing in the autumn, is targeted particularly at deprived children outside the big cities and will be shown on the national state broadcaster, PTV, so it should be available even in the smallest village. Following the Sesame Street formula, each show will pick one word and one number to highlight.\"The idea is to prepare and inspire a child to go on the path of learning, and inspire the parents of the child to think that the child must be educated,\" said Faizaan Peerzada, the chief operating officer at the Lahore-based Rafi Peer Theatre Workshop, which was awarded the commission for the project in collaboration with Sesame Workshop, the creator of the American show. \"This is a very serious business, the education of the children of Pakistan at a critical time.\"The show will have strong female characters and carry an implicit message of tolerance but will feature no pro-American propaganda or overt challenge to hardline religious sentiment. Under Barack Obama, US civilian assistance to Pakistan has tripled to $1.5bn a year but the money does not seem to have made much obvious impact. The Pakistani Sesame Street could turn out to be the most visible American aid project in Pakistan in recent years.The $20m US grant will produce the Pakistani Sesame Street for four years, with 78 episodes in Urdu and 56 in regional languages, a radio show, mobile TV vans to show the programme in remote areas and a travelling Muppet roadshow.Some will criticise the expenditure on a TV programme, but it aims to reach 3 million kids, many more than the same sum spent on school building. The Muppets will also be used to front public service messages on issues such as health, which aim to reach 95 million people.\"Teaching kids early on makes them much more successful when they get to school. And this programme will have the capacity to encourage tolerance, which is so key to what we're trying to do here,\" said Larry Dolan, director of the education office at USAid for Pakistan. \"In terms of bang for the buck, reaching 95 million people is pretty important. This is much more than a TV programme, far more ambitious than a Sesame Street series.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Sesame Street", "Television", "Children's TV", "US television", "US news", "World news", "Obama administration"], "title": "Sesame Street comes to Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-26T09:26:30Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The US is reducing its military force in Pakistan at the request of Islamabad after US special forces killed Osama bin Laden, the Pentagon has said.More than 200 American troops are in the country helping to train the army in counter-insurgency, but there are also said to be intelligence and special forces there.No details have been given on the size of the reduction, the type of troops involved, nor whether Pakistan has set a new limit on US numbers.Pentagon spokesman Colonel David Lapan said: \"We were recently (within the past two weeks) notified in writing the government of Pakistan wished for the US to reduce its footprint in Pakistan. Accordingly we have begun those reductions.\"The request will be taken as a sign of Islamabad's annoyance that the raid on Bin Laden's compound at Abbottabad was carried out without its knowledge. There have been suspicions in Washington that some in Pakistan knew the al-Qaida leader's hideout.But Pervez Musharraf, the former president of Pakistan, denied that the country's ISI intelligence service knew, at any level, of the presence of the world's most wanted man in the garrison city. However, in an interview with BBC's Newsnight on Wednesday, he admitted that it was \"very difficult to prove non-complicity\".Musharraf said he had been surprised and shocked to discover where Bin Laden had been hiding. He added that neither he nor senior government officials had colluded in providing refuge for the fugitive while he was in power between 1999 and 2007. \"I can't imagine in my wildest dreams that the intelligence agency was doing something without telling me, so therefore there was no complicity at the strategic level.\"However, the intelligence service had demonstrated \"negligence, ineptitude and failure\" in its failure to detect Bin Laden, he said.", "tags": ["US military", "Pakistan", "US news", "Osama bin Laden", "Pervez Musharraf", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "US cuts troop numbers in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-20T06:43:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Taliban has claimed responsibility for a bomb attack on a US convoy in Peshawar, the first attack on Americans in Pakistan since the death of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden on 2 May.A bystander was killed and 12 people, two of them American, were wounded when a blast hit two armoured vehicles as they travelled to the US consulate, which is believed to house a largeCIA station.\"We had warned that we will avenge the martyrdom of Osama,\" a Taliban spokesman, Ahsanullah Ahsan, told Associated Press in a phone call from an undisclosed location. \"We say to the Americans and Nato that we will carry out more deadly attacks and we can do it.\"A US embassy spokesman said the Americans were not seriously hurt. Declan Walsh IslamabadHe did not identify their function, but a police superintendent, Ijaz Khan, said two US security guards were being treated at an American medical facility.The attack took place in University Town, a wealthy neighbourhood inhabited by westerners. US officials said a Taliban suicide bomber had rammed his motorbike into one of the US vehicles. Television pictures showed a white bulletproof jeep that had crashed into an electricity pylon.It was not the first reprisal for Bin Laden's death claimed by the Taliban. A week ago, two suicide bombers killed at least 91 recruits and wounded 100 outside a military training centre in Shabqadar, 10 miles north of Peshawar. On Wednesday. more than 100 heavily armed militants stormed a checkpost on the outskirts of Peshawar, triggering a gunfight that left two police and 15 militants dead.The attack was credited to Lashkar-i-Islam, a criminal-militant group that holds sway in parts of the nearby Khyber tribal agency.Meanwhile, in Islamabad, US officials are trying to patch up their battered relationship with Pakistan's military and intelligence services while refusing to promise that the US will not carry out another unilateral raid similar to the one that killed Bin Laden.On Thursday, the US regional envoy, Marc Grossman, and the CIA deputy chief, Michael Morrell, held meetings with the Pakistan army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, and the head of Pakistani intelligence.Pakistan's military and civilian leaders have expressed outrage and described the Navy Seals' raid in Abbottabad, 35 miles north of Islamabad, as a gross violation of sovereignty. The storm of anger has also served to obscure pressing questions about how Bin Laden managed to shelter inside Pakistan for at least six years.The US is pressing Pakistan to take action against other militant leaders including the al-Qaida number two, Ayman al-Zawahiri, and Sirajuddin Haqqani, a militant warlord responsible for multiple attacks on western forces in Afghanistan.Meanwhile the CIA is combing a trove of computer disks seized from Bin Laden's house for intelligence on al-Qaida militants and future plots.US officials are also checking the computers for any \"smoking gun\" \u2013 an indication that Bin Laden was being sheltered by Pakistani officials \u2013 but say that, so far, no such proof has emerged. Some intelligence gleaned from the disks has already been shared with Pakistan.The highly protected Peshawar consulate, believed to house a major CIA station that assists with drone strikes in the nearby tribal belt, has been hit by the Taliban before.In August 2008, the consul general survived a gun attack on her armoured vehicle as she left her house. In April 2010 militants launched a grenade and gunfire attack on the consulate, killing eight people including security guards but no Americans.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Osama bin Laden", "US news", "US foreign policy", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "US consulate vehicles attacked in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-13T22:41:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "14 JuneA car bomb outside the US consulate in Karachi kills 12.25 DecemberPresident Pervez Musharraf escapes injury in a suicide bomb attack which kills 15.20 March43 people are killed when a bomb explodes at a Shia Muslim shrine in south Balochistan province.11 April 57 people are killed in a suicide bomb attack on a Sunni Muslim prayer service in Karachi.July-November The Red Mosque in Islamabad is held in a week-long siege by an Islamist group. 105 die when the mosque is stormed by government troops on 10 July, leading to a wave of suicide bombings, killing at least 400 between July and November.10 January22 are killed in a suicide bombing targeting policemen standing outside the high court in Lahore.12 OctoberA suicide bomber in his early teens targets a military vehicle passing through a market in Shangla district, killing 41.15 October39 are killed in five separate Taliban attacks on police and government targets across Pakistan.5 AprilFive Taliban suicide bombers attack the US consulate in Peshawar, but fail to breach security. A truck bomb causes damage to building in an attack that claims seven lives.10 JulyA suicide attack and a car bomb kill 102 people in village of Yakaghund.5 November68 worshippers are killed as a suicide bomber targets a mosque during Friday prayers in Darra Adam Khel. Four people die in a grenade attack at another mosque in the region later the same day. A spokesman for the Pakistan Taliban says the group was responsible for the attack.1 AprilTwo suicide bombers strike a festival at a Sufi Muslim shrine in the Dera Ghazi Khan district. 50 die in an attack claimed by the Taliban.26 - 28 AprilThree roadside bombs in the space of three days kill seven Pakistani navy personnel travelling by bus in Karachi.13 May80 people die in an attack on a paramilitary Frontier Corps training academy in Charsadda, north-west Pakistan. The Pakistani Taliban claim responsibility for the first major bombing in Pakistan following the death of Osama Bin Laden. \"It's the first revenge for the martyrdom of Bin Laden. There will be more,\" says Taliban spokesman Ehsanullah Ehsan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "A timeline of terror in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-05-02T10:06:59Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The extraordinary discovery that Osama bin Laden had been living, possibly since 2005, in a luxury compound in a popular summer resort a short drive from the national capital, Islamabad, is an enormous and dangerous embarrassment for Pakistan's government.Officials from President Asif Ali Zardari downwards have consistently maintained that the al-Qaida chief was not sheltering on Pakistani soil, suggesting instead that the Americans look for him elsewhere, particularly in Afghanistan. The Pakistani stance was part of a wider policy of denial, dating back to the 9/11 attacks, premised on the argument that Pakistan was not the source and springboard for Islamist-inspired terrorism but rather its principal victim.Islamabad's head-in-the-sand position, as it is seen by some analysts in the west, has led to intensifying friction with Washington in recent months, as the Obama administration struggles to bring an ordered end to its 10-year involvement in Afghanistan. There have been furious rows about unmanned cross-border drone attacks, the arrest in Lahore of a CIA contractor, and Pakistani criticism of US failure to open peace talks with the Taliban.But all that is as nothing compared with what may now follow. Official denial-ism has also hampered Pakistan's efforts to deal forcefully with its own violent Islamists, the so-called Pakistani Taliban, with which al-Qaida is said to have links. Tens of thousands of people have died in Pakistan as a result of terrorist activity since 9/11, more than all the European and American victims combined.Given this context, and amid predictions by western commentators of possible terrorist retaliation against US and British targets, it is Pakistanis, along with Afghans, who are most likely to pay a blood price in terms of revenge attacks for the slaying of a man who is seen by some in the Muslim world as an iconic figure.Tellingly, the Pakistani government was not informed beforehand of the American special forces' raid. The truth is, US officials would simply not have trusted their counterparts in Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Pakistan's powerful security and spy agency, with such sensitive information.Extremely pointed questions are now certain to be asked about whether the ISI or its various branches and minions, knew of the existence of the highly unusual, heavily fortified, expensively built compound in Abbottabad, 35 miles north of Islamabad \u2013 and of its high-value, low-profile tenant. If they did, why did they not investigate? If they did not, was it because they didn't want to know?The most damaging (and familiar) suspicion, which is certain to resurface in the coming days, is that elements within the ISI who have maintained links with terrorist groups such as the Haqqani network, did indeed know Bin Laden and his retinue were in Abbottabad, and by keeping silent, were effectively providing him with protection.The Pakistani government will energetically deny any such suggestion. But given its tenuous control over the ISI, sometimes described as a state within a state, and given its record for candour to date, it will have a hard time being believed.\"When we saw the compound, we were shocked by what we saw: an extraordinarily unique compound,\" a senior US administration official said. The building, about eight times the size of other nearby houses, sat on a large plot of land that was relatively secluded when it was built in 2005. The villa had comprehensive security measures in place, the official said, including 12- to 18-foot outer walls topped with barbed wire and internal walls. Like some kind of medieval keep, two security gates restricted access. Only a few windows of the three-story building faced outwards, and its terrace had a seven-foot privacy wall, officials said.Pakistan will now face possibly strong reactions not only from the Americans, but also from home-grown militants \u2013 plus possible spillover from Afghanistan, where fighting is in any case expected to intensify as the weather warms.Renewed trouble could also extend to disputed Kashmir, where repression by Indian security forces of the Muslim population intensified last year and Pakistani Punjabi militant groups have a long history of involvement. Significantly, India was quick to point this out. The home ministry in New Delhi lost no time in saying the discovery of Bin Laden in Pakistan underscored its concern that \"terrorists belonging to different organisations find sanctuary in Pakistan\".In Washington and New York as in London and Delhi, relief that the world's most wanted man has been killed will be tempered, and may yet be overtaken by deep anger that he was apparently living not in some freezing mountain cave, as many assumed, but freely, undisturbed and untroubled by the authorities, in comfort in a desirable Pakistani neighbourhood.", "tags": ["Osama bin Laden", "Pakistan", "US foreign policy", "Al-Qaida", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "World news", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Osama bin Laden's death will haunt Pakistan | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:45:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Our story that Save the Children flew eight expatriate aid workers out of Pakistan in July for fear that they could have been arrested by Inter-Services Intelligence is a classic example of a term the CIA itself invented: blowback. As we reported in July, the CIA organised a fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad in an attempt to obtain DNA from Osama bin Laden's family to prove their target was definitely there.The Pakistani doctor they used to mount the fake programme, Shakil Afridi, participated in two health-worker training courses run by Save the Children in 2008 and 2010. Under interrogation, Afridi said he told his wife he was working for Save the Children when he was working for the CIA. The ISI then turned their attentions to a major western aid organisation which has no connection either to the doctor or to the fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad, but which helped 7 million people in Pakistan last year, half of whom were caught up in the floods. It might be argued that the means justified the end, that the CIA had to make every effort to find out whether Bin Laden was in that compound, before the US raid. But it cannot be denied that the collateral damage of using aid workers as spies is enormous. Most of Save the Children's workers \u2013 2,000 of them in Pakistan \u2013 are locally hired staff doing brave work in war zones such as the Swat valley.Using aid agencies as cover for intelligence operations is not only deeply cynical. It is dangerous. It endangers the lives of thousands of aid workers who cannot escape or be flown out of the country at a moment's notice as the eight expats were. In Pakistan's case, the anger generated by drone attacks and the CIA's covert operations fills the coffers of the Taliban. When Imran Khan says that his is the \"only country in history which keeps on getting bombed, through drone attacks, by our ally\", and that 35,000 people have been killed in a war that has nothing to do with them, he is surely expressing the feelings of more than just his party. It is hard to find a quicker way to subvert the good that aid does than to militarise it.Caught between the Taliban and the CIA, international aid agencies in Pakistan are being asked to do an impossible job. They are working under incredible pressure. It is, however, also incumbent on them to jealously guard their independence and their neutrality, and not to be seen as another arm of western power. This is not just a matter of where they get their funds from. The gold standard in Pakistan is set by the ICRC and MSF, who have been battling with military authorities to gain access to war zones while operations are still being conducted. Aid agencies not only have to work on their terms. They have to be seen to be doing so.", "tags": ["CIA", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "World news", "US news", "Global development", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: mission impossible | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:45:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Our story that Save the Children flew eight expatriate aid workers out of Pakistan in July for fear that they could have been arrested by Inter-Services Intelligence is a classic example of a term the CIA itself invented: blowback. As we reported in July, the CIA organised a fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad in an attempt to obtain DNA from Osama bin Laden's family to prove their target was definitely there.The Pakistani doctor they used to mount the fake programme, Shakil Afridi, participated in two health-worker training courses run by Save the Children in 2008 and 2010. Under interrogation, Afridi said he told his wife he was working for Save the Children when he was working for the CIA. The ISI then turned their attentions to a major western aid organisation which has no connection either to the doctor or to the fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad, but which helped 7 million people in Pakistan last year, half of whom were caught up in the floods. It might be argued that the means justified the end, that the CIA had to make every effort to find out whether Bin Laden was in that compound, before the US raid. But it cannot be denied that the collateral damage of using aid workers as spies is enormous. Most of Save the Children's workers \u2013 2,000 of them in Pakistan \u2013 are locally hired staff doing brave work in war zones such as the Swat valley.Using aid agencies as cover for intelligence operations is not only deeply cynical. It is dangerous. It endangers the lives of thousands of aid workers who cannot escape or be flown out of the country at a moment's notice as the eight expats were. In Pakistan's case, the anger generated by drone attacks and the CIA's covert operations fills the coffers of the Taliban. When Imran Khan says that his is the \"only country in history which keeps on getting bombed, through drone attacks, by our ally\", and that 35,000 people have been killed in a war that has nothing to do with them, he is surely expressing the feelings of more than just his party. It is hard to find a quicker way to subvert the good that aid does than to militarise it.Caught between the Taliban and the CIA, international aid agencies in Pakistan are being asked to do an impossible job. They are working under incredible pressure. It is, however, also incumbent on them to jealously guard their independence and their neutrality, and not to be seen as another arm of western power. This is not just a matter of where they get their funds from. The gold standard in Pakistan is set by the ICRC and MSF, who have been battling with military authorities to gain access to war zones while operations are still being conducted. Aid agencies not only have to work on their terms. They have to be seen to be doing so.", "tags": ["CIA", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "World news", "US news", "Global development", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: mission impossible | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-08-30T18:26:53Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Millions of internet users in Pakistan will be unable to send emails and messages without fear of government snooping after authorities banned the use of encryption software.A legal notice sent to all internet providers (ISPs) by the Pakistan Telecommunications Authority, seen by the Guardian, orders the ISPs to inform authorities if any of their customers are using virtual private networks (VPNs) to browse the web.Virtual private networks allow internet users to connect to the web undetected, meaning that they can access banned websites and send emails without fear of government interception.Pakistan's 20 million internet users have previously been banned from popular social networks, such as Facebook, because of blasphemous material about the prophet Muhammad. All internet traffic in the country travels through the Pakistan Internet Exchange, which can be intercepted by the military and civil intelligence agencies. The move echoes a crackdown against encrypted communications across the border in India and in China.The Pakistan Telecommunications Authority legal notice urged ISPs to report customers using \"all such mechanisms including EVPNs [encrypted virtual private networks] which conceal communication to the extent that prohibits monitoring\". Anyone needing to use this technology needs to apply for special permission, the notice said.Authorities in Islamabad insisted that the ban on VPN access was intended to stem communications by terrorists.However, banks, call centres and many other businesses use encrypted connections to communicate with their branches and customers, to protect sensitive data such as account numbers and passwords.\"This is like banning cars because suicide bombers use them,\" said Shakir Husain, chief executive of Creative Chaos, a Karachi-based software company. \"You have to find out who these guys [extremists] are. This is a blanket, knee-jerk, response.\"There is strict regulation of internet traffic in Pakistan. Last year, the authorities banned the entire Facebook website for months after a user launched a contest to draw a cartoon of the prophet Muhammad. Accessing the internet on BlackBerry smartphones is problematic, because of the device's high-security encryption software.Recently the regulator made it impossible for Pakistanis to access the website of Rolling Stone magazine, after it published an article on the high proportion of the national budget in Pakistan that goes on its military.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Internet", "Facebook", "World news", "Technology", "BlackBerry", "Mobile phones", "Media", "Social networking", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan to ban encryption software"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:45:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Our story that Save the Children flew eight expatriate aid workers out of Pakistan in July for fear that they could have been arrested by Inter-Services Intelligence is a classic example of a term the CIA itself invented: blowback. As we reported in July, the CIA organised a fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad in an attempt to obtain DNA from Osama bin Laden's family to prove their target was definitely there.The Pakistani doctor they used to mount the fake programme, Shakil Afridi, participated in two health-worker training courses run by Save the Children in 2008 and 2010. Under interrogation, Afridi said he told his wife he was working for Save the Children when he was working for the CIA. The ISI then turned their attentions to a major western aid organisation which has no connection either to the doctor or to the fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad, but which helped 7 million people in Pakistan last year, half of whom were caught up in the floods. It might be argued that the means justified the end, that the CIA had to make every effort to find out whether Bin Laden was in that compound, before the US raid. But it cannot be denied that the collateral damage of using aid workers as spies is enormous. Most of Save the Children's workers \u2013 2,000 of them in Pakistan \u2013 are locally hired staff doing brave work in war zones such as the Swat valley.Using aid agencies as cover for intelligence operations is not only deeply cynical. It is dangerous. It endangers the lives of thousands of aid workers who cannot escape or be flown out of the country at a moment's notice as the eight expats were. In Pakistan's case, the anger generated by drone attacks and the CIA's covert operations fills the coffers of the Taliban. When Imran Khan says that his is the \"only country in history which keeps on getting bombed, through drone attacks, by our ally\", and that 35,000 people have been killed in a war that has nothing to do with them, he is surely expressing the feelings of more than just his party. It is hard to find a quicker way to subvert the good that aid does than to militarise it.Caught between the Taliban and the CIA, international aid agencies in Pakistan are being asked to do an impossible job. They are working under incredible pressure. It is, however, also incumbent on them to jealously guard their independence and their neutrality, and not to be seen as another arm of western power. This is not just a matter of where they get their funds from. The gold standard in Pakistan is set by the ICRC and MSF, who have been battling with military authorities to gain access to war zones while operations are still being conducted. Aid agencies not only have to work on their terms. They have to be seen to be doing so.", "tags": ["CIA", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "World news", "US news", "Global development", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: mission impossible | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-08-30T18:26:53Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Millions of internet users in Pakistan will be unable to send emails and messages without fear of government snooping after authorities banned the use of encryption software.A legal notice sent to all internet providers (ISPs) by the Pakistan Telecommunications Authority, seen by the Guardian, orders the ISPs to inform authorities if any of their customers are using virtual private networks (VPNs) to browse the web.Virtual private networks allow internet users to connect to the web undetected, meaning that they can access banned websites and send emails without fear of government interception.Pakistan's 20 million internet users have previously been banned from popular social networks, such as Facebook, because of blasphemous material about the prophet Muhammad. All internet traffic in the country travels through the Pakistan Internet Exchange, which can be intercepted by the military and civil intelligence agencies. The move echoes a crackdown against encrypted communications across the border in India and in China.The Pakistan Telecommunications Authority legal notice urged ISPs to report customers using \"all such mechanisms including EVPNs [encrypted virtual private networks] which conceal communication to the extent that prohibits monitoring\". Anyone needing to use this technology needs to apply for special permission, the notice said.Authorities in Islamabad insisted that the ban on VPN access was intended to stem communications by terrorists.However, banks, call centres and many other businesses use encrypted connections to communicate with their branches and customers, to protect sensitive data such as account numbers and passwords.\"This is like banning cars because suicide bombers use them,\" said Shakir Husain, chief executive of Creative Chaos, a Karachi-based software company. \"You have to find out who these guys [extremists] are. This is a blanket, knee-jerk, response.\"There is strict regulation of internet traffic in Pakistan. Last year, the authorities banned the entire Facebook website for months after a user launched a contest to draw a cartoon of the prophet Muhammad. Accessing the internet on BlackBerry smartphones is problematic, because of the device's high-security encryption software.Recently the regulator made it impossible for Pakistanis to access the website of Rolling Stone magazine, after it published an article on the high proportion of the national budget in Pakistan that goes on its military.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Internet", "Facebook", "World news", "Technology", "BlackBerry", "Mobile phones", "Media", "Social networking", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan to ban encryption software"},{"date": "2011-07-07T14:39:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's research on renewable energy has been severely hit by a lack of funds, experts say, forcing it to look abroad to import green technologies.The country will aim to boost technology transfer from China and Germany for solar panels and wind turbines, and attract more investment for research and development (R&D), according to its five-year policy on renewable energy, which will be launched in August by the Alternative Energy Development Board.Pakistan already has plans to generate 2,300 megawatts (MW) of electricity from solar and wind sources under an agreement signed last year (19 December) with China's Wind Electric.But some experts say that importing technology is only a short-term fix and that the government should invest more in developing local technologies.\"The funding in renewable energy technology research by the government of Pakistan is close to nothing,\" said Masood Ahmed, head of the Sustainable Development Research Centre at the Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology.There is a \"serious need\" for government funding to tap into the country's huge potential in the sector and \"resolve the deepening power crisis in Pakistan\", he said.The main power resources in Pakistan are oil and gas, but reserves of both are expected to have run out by 2030, according to the state-owned Oil and Gas Development Company, and the country already faces an energy shortfall.\"Previous and present governments have shown that they are only interested in short-term solutions to the present energy crisis, as reflected in mere imports of renewable energy technology,\" said Ahmed.This shows that strengthening research in Pakistan's renewable energy sector is not high on the government's agenda, he added.Pakistan's universities have run pilot projects in areas such as fuel cells, biodiesel, ethanol fuel, innovative lighting systems, fuel cells for vehicles and biogas.But they lack the funds to continue their research and roll out the technologies, according to Arshad Abbasi, water and energy advisor at the Sustainable Development Policy Institute (SDPI).The new policy will set a target of generating five per cent of Pakistan's total commercial energy from alternative and renewable energy sources by 2030.It will offer financial incentives for projects including a manufacturing base for renewable energy plants and components, and will seek to develop the infrastructure for renewable energy programmes with help from the Asian Development Bank and the US Agency for International Development.", "tags": ["Energy", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Pakistan to import green technologies"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:45:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Our story that Save the Children flew eight expatriate aid workers out of Pakistan in July for fear that they could have been arrested by Inter-Services Intelligence is a classic example of a term the CIA itself invented: blowback. As we reported in July, the CIA organised a fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad in an attempt to obtain DNA from Osama bin Laden's family to prove their target was definitely there.The Pakistani doctor they used to mount the fake programme, Shakil Afridi, participated in two health-worker training courses run by Save the Children in 2008 and 2010. Under interrogation, Afridi said he told his wife he was working for Save the Children when he was working for the CIA. The ISI then turned their attentions to a major western aid organisation which has no connection either to the doctor or to the fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad, but which helped 7 million people in Pakistan last year, half of whom were caught up in the floods. It might be argued that the means justified the end, that the CIA had to make every effort to find out whether Bin Laden was in that compound, before the US raid. But it cannot be denied that the collateral damage of using aid workers as spies is enormous. Most of Save the Children's workers \u2013 2,000 of them in Pakistan \u2013 are locally hired staff doing brave work in war zones such as the Swat valley.Using aid agencies as cover for intelligence operations is not only deeply cynical. It is dangerous. It endangers the lives of thousands of aid workers who cannot escape or be flown out of the country at a moment's notice as the eight expats were. In Pakistan's case, the anger generated by drone attacks and the CIA's covert operations fills the coffers of the Taliban. When Imran Khan says that his is the \"only country in history which keeps on getting bombed, through drone attacks, by our ally\", and that 35,000 people have been killed in a war that has nothing to do with them, he is surely expressing the feelings of more than just his party. It is hard to find a quicker way to subvert the good that aid does than to militarise it.Caught between the Taliban and the CIA, international aid agencies in Pakistan are being asked to do an impossible job. They are working under incredible pressure. It is, however, also incumbent on them to jealously guard their independence and their neutrality, and not to be seen as another arm of western power. This is not just a matter of where they get their funds from. The gold standard in Pakistan is set by the ICRC and MSF, who have been battling with military authorities to gain access to war zones while operations are still being conducted. Aid agencies not only have to work on their terms. They have to be seen to be doing so.", "tags": ["CIA", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "World news", "US news", "Global development", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: mission impossible | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-08-30T18:26:53Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Millions of internet users in Pakistan will be unable to send emails and messages without fear of government snooping after authorities banned the use of encryption software.A legal notice sent to all internet providers (ISPs) by the Pakistan Telecommunications Authority, seen by the Guardian, orders the ISPs to inform authorities if any of their customers are using virtual private networks (VPNs) to browse the web.Virtual private networks allow internet users to connect to the web undetected, meaning that they can access banned websites and send emails without fear of government interception.Pakistan's 20 million internet users have previously been banned from popular social networks, such as Facebook, because of blasphemous material about the prophet Muhammad. All internet traffic in the country travels through the Pakistan Internet Exchange, which can be intercepted by the military and civil intelligence agencies. The move echoes a crackdown against encrypted communications across the border in India and in China.The Pakistan Telecommunications Authority legal notice urged ISPs to report customers using \"all such mechanisms including EVPNs [encrypted virtual private networks] which conceal communication to the extent that prohibits monitoring\". Anyone needing to use this technology needs to apply for special permission, the notice said.Authorities in Islamabad insisted that the ban on VPN access was intended to stem communications by terrorists.However, banks, call centres and many other businesses use encrypted connections to communicate with their branches and customers, to protect sensitive data such as account numbers and passwords.\"This is like banning cars because suicide bombers use them,\" said Shakir Husain, chief executive of Creative Chaos, a Karachi-based software company. \"You have to find out who these guys [extremists] are. This is a blanket, knee-jerk, response.\"There is strict regulation of internet traffic in Pakistan. Last year, the authorities banned the entire Facebook website for months after a user launched a contest to draw a cartoon of the prophet Muhammad. Accessing the internet on BlackBerry smartphones is problematic, because of the device's high-security encryption software.Recently the regulator made it impossible for Pakistanis to access the website of Rolling Stone magazine, after it published an article on the high proportion of the national budget in Pakistan that goes on its military.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Internet", "Facebook", "World news", "Technology", "BlackBerry", "Mobile phones", "Media", "Social networking", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan to ban encryption software"},{"date": "2011-07-07T14:39:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's research on renewable energy has been severely hit by a lack of funds, experts say, forcing it to look abroad to import green technologies.The country will aim to boost technology transfer from China and Germany for solar panels and wind turbines, and attract more investment for research and development (R&D), according to its five-year policy on renewable energy, which will be launched in August by the Alternative Energy Development Board.Pakistan already has plans to generate 2,300 megawatts (MW) of electricity from solar and wind sources under an agreement signed last year (19 December) with China's Wind Electric.But some experts say that importing technology is only a short-term fix and that the government should invest more in developing local technologies.\"The funding in renewable energy technology research by the government of Pakistan is close to nothing,\" said Masood Ahmed, head of the Sustainable Development Research Centre at the Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology.There is a \"serious need\" for government funding to tap into the country's huge potential in the sector and \"resolve the deepening power crisis in Pakistan\", he said.The main power resources in Pakistan are oil and gas, but reserves of both are expected to have run out by 2030, according to the state-owned Oil and Gas Development Company, and the country already faces an energy shortfall.\"Previous and present governments have shown that they are only interested in short-term solutions to the present energy crisis, as reflected in mere imports of renewable energy technology,\" said Ahmed.This shows that strengthening research in Pakistan's renewable energy sector is not high on the government's agenda, he added.Pakistan's universities have run pilot projects in areas such as fuel cells, biodiesel, ethanol fuel, innovative lighting systems, fuel cells for vehicles and biogas.But they lack the funds to continue their research and roll out the technologies, according to Arshad Abbasi, water and energy advisor at the Sustainable Development Policy Institute (SDPI).The new policy will set a target of generating five per cent of Pakistan's total commercial energy from alternative and renewable energy sources by 2030.It will offer financial incentives for projects including a manufacturing base for renewable energy plants and components, and will seek to develop the infrastructure for renewable energy programmes with help from the Asian Development Bank and the US Agency for International Development.", "tags": ["Energy", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Pakistan to import green technologies"},{"date": "2011-09-22T21:32:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The American commander of Nato in Afghanistan personally asked Pakistan's army chief to halt an insurgent truck bomb that was heading for his troops, during a meeting in Islamabad two days before a huge explosion that wounded 77 US soldiers at a base near Kabul.In reply General Ashfaq Kayani offered to \"make a phone call\" to stop the assault on the US base in Wardak province. But his failure to use the American intelligence to prevent the attack has fuelled a blazing row between the US and Pakistan.Furious American officials blame the Taliban-inspired group the Haqqanis \u2013 and, by extension, Pakistani intelligence \u2013 for the 10 September bombing and an even more audacious guerrilla assault on the Kabul US embassy three days later that killed 20 people and lasted more than 20 hours.On Thursday the US military chief, Admiral Mike Mullen, described the Haqqanis as \"a veritable arm of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence [spy] agency\". He earlier accused the ISI of fighting a \"proxy war\" in Afghanistan through the group.Pakistan's defence minister, Ahmed Mukhtar, rejected the American accusations of Haqqani patronage as \"baseless\". \"No one can threaten Pakistan as we are an independent state,\" he said.The angry accusations lift the veil on sensitive conversations that have heretofore largely taken place behind closed doors. On 8 September, General John Allen, the Nato commander in Afghanistan, raised intelligence reports of the impending truck bomb at a meeting with Kayani during a visit to Islamabad.Kayani promised Allen he would \"make a phone call\" to try to stop the attack, according to a western official with close knowledge of the meeting. \"The offer raised eyebrows,\" the official said.But two days later, just after Allen's return to Kabul, a truck rigged with explosives ploughed into the gates of the US base in Wardak, 50 miles south-west of Kabul, injuring 77 US soldiers and killing two Afghan civilians.Afterwards the US ambassador to Kabul, Ryan Crocker, blamed the Haqqanis. \"They enjoy safe havens in North Waziristan,\" he said, referring to the Haqqani main base in the tribal belt.Allen's spokesman said Nato \"routinely shares intelligence with the Pakistanis regarding insurgent activities\" but he refused to confirm the details of the conversation with Kayani.The Pakistani military spokesman, General Athar Abbas, said: \"Let's suppose it was the case. The main question is how did this truck travel to Wardak and explode without being checked by Nato? This is just a blame game.\"US allegations of ISI links to Haqqani attacks stretch back to July 2008, when the CIA deputy director, Stephen Kappes, flew to Islamabad with intercept evidence that linked the ISI to an attack on the Indian embassy in Kabul.But American disquiet has never been so uncompromisingly expressed as in recent days. The issue dominated three hours of talks between the secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, and the Pakistani foreign minister, Hina Rabbani Khar.On Tuesday Mullen said he had asked Kayani to \"disconnect\" the ISI from the Haqqanis. In Washington the CIA chief, David Petraeus, delivered a similar message in private to the ISI chief, General Shuja Pasha. Even the soft-spoken US ambassador to Islamabad, Cameron Munter, has joined the chorus of condemnation, delivering a hard-hitting message through an interview on Pakistani state radio.\"We've changed our message in private too,\" one US official said. \"Before, we used to make polite demands about the Haqqanis. Now we are saying 'this has to stop'.\"The new mood is driven by a combination of climbing casualties and brazen attacks. The Haqqanis were also blamed for a recent assault on the InterContinental Hotel, while August was the deadliest month for US forces in Afghanistan, with 71 deaths.Nato is now investigating whether the Haqqanis had a hand in Tuesday's assassination of Burhanuddin Rabbani, President Hamid Karzai's peace envoy to the Taliban. Rabbani was killed at his home by a suicide bomber wearing an explosives-packed turban. A bloodstained four-page letter he was carrying at the time of the attack, a copy of which has been obtained by the Guardian, insisted that \"Pakistan is not our boss\".American officials have vowed to act unilaterally if Pakistan fails to comply with their demands over the Haqqanis. But it remains unclear how far they are willing to go against Pakistan, a nuclear-armed country that still provides vital counter-terrorism support.There was some hope of resuscitating fragile relations between the Pakistani and American intelligence services, which were buffeted by the US raid that killed Osama bin Laden on 2 May. Officials from both countries hailed a joint operation on 28 August to arrest Younis al-Mauritani, a senior al-Qaida operative, in the western city of Quetta. On 5 September the Pakistani military issued a press release that highlighted Pakistani-American co-operation; some viewed the raid as a possible turning point in relations.But the flurry of Haqqani attacks over the past two weeks seems to have washed away whatever goodwill was generated by the arrest.US officials say debate is raging inside US policy circles about what to do next. The defence secretary, Leon Panetta, is said to have privately advocated US military incursions into the Haqqani stronghold in Waziristan \u2013 a risky gambit other officials reject as dangerous folly, citing the historical record of failure of western armies in the tribal belt.Other US officials say Washington could slash non-military aid such as the $7.5bn five-year Kerry-Lugar-Berman package, which was approved in 2009.There is also debate about the exact nature of the ISI's relationship with the Haqqanis. One western official said it was not a puppetmaster scenario. \"It's not like they have a chain of command, with the Pakistanis handing down XOs [executive orders],\" he said. Neither are the Pakistanis necessarily providing logistical support, he added: \"It's murkier than that.\"But, the official added, the US believes Pakistan is \"actively tolerating\" the Haqqanis. And the ISI could, if it wanted to, seriously disrupt their activities.He warned that Pakistan was heading towards international isolation. \"If it keeps going like this, it could end up like Syria \u2013 before the Arab spring.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US military", "US news", "World news", "Nato", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "US bomb warning to Pakistan ignored"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:45:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Our story that Save the Children flew eight expatriate aid workers out of Pakistan in July for fear that they could have been arrested by Inter-Services Intelligence is a classic example of a term the CIA itself invented: blowback. As we reported in July, the CIA organised a fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad in an attempt to obtain DNA from Osama bin Laden's family to prove their target was definitely there.The Pakistani doctor they used to mount the fake programme, Shakil Afridi, participated in two health-worker training courses run by Save the Children in 2008 and 2010. Under interrogation, Afridi said he told his wife he was working for Save the Children when he was working for the CIA. The ISI then turned their attentions to a major western aid organisation which has no connection either to the doctor or to the fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad, but which helped 7 million people in Pakistan last year, half of whom were caught up in the floods. It might be argued that the means justified the end, that the CIA had to make every effort to find out whether Bin Laden was in that compound, before the US raid. But it cannot be denied that the collateral damage of using aid workers as spies is enormous. Most of Save the Children's workers \u2013 2,000 of them in Pakistan \u2013 are locally hired staff doing brave work in war zones such as the Swat valley.Using aid agencies as cover for intelligence operations is not only deeply cynical. It is dangerous. It endangers the lives of thousands of aid workers who cannot escape or be flown out of the country at a moment's notice as the eight expats were. In Pakistan's case, the anger generated by drone attacks and the CIA's covert operations fills the coffers of the Taliban. When Imran Khan says that his is the \"only country in history which keeps on getting bombed, through drone attacks, by our ally\", and that 35,000 people have been killed in a war that has nothing to do with them, he is surely expressing the feelings of more than just his party. It is hard to find a quicker way to subvert the good that aid does than to militarise it.Caught between the Taliban and the CIA, international aid agencies in Pakistan are being asked to do an impossible job. They are working under incredible pressure. It is, however, also incumbent on them to jealously guard their independence and their neutrality, and not to be seen as another arm of western power. This is not just a matter of where they get their funds from. The gold standard in Pakistan is set by the ICRC and MSF, who have been battling with military authorities to gain access to war zones while operations are still being conducted. Aid agencies not only have to work on their terms. They have to be seen to be doing so.", "tags": ["CIA", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "World news", "US news", "Global development", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: mission impossible | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-08-30T18:26:53Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Millions of internet users in Pakistan will be unable to send emails and messages without fear of government snooping after authorities banned the use of encryption software.A legal notice sent to all internet providers (ISPs) by the Pakistan Telecommunications Authority, seen by the Guardian, orders the ISPs to inform authorities if any of their customers are using virtual private networks (VPNs) to browse the web.Virtual private networks allow internet users to connect to the web undetected, meaning that they can access banned websites and send emails without fear of government interception.Pakistan's 20 million internet users have previously been banned from popular social networks, such as Facebook, because of blasphemous material about the prophet Muhammad. All internet traffic in the country travels through the Pakistan Internet Exchange, which can be intercepted by the military and civil intelligence agencies. The move echoes a crackdown against encrypted communications across the border in India and in China.The Pakistan Telecommunications Authority legal notice urged ISPs to report customers using \"all such mechanisms including EVPNs [encrypted virtual private networks] which conceal communication to the extent that prohibits monitoring\". Anyone needing to use this technology needs to apply for special permission, the notice said.Authorities in Islamabad insisted that the ban on VPN access was intended to stem communications by terrorists.However, banks, call centres and many other businesses use encrypted connections to communicate with their branches and customers, to protect sensitive data such as account numbers and passwords.\"This is like banning cars because suicide bombers use them,\" said Shakir Husain, chief executive of Creative Chaos, a Karachi-based software company. \"You have to find out who these guys [extremists] are. This is a blanket, knee-jerk, response.\"There is strict regulation of internet traffic in Pakistan. Last year, the authorities banned the entire Facebook website for months after a user launched a contest to draw a cartoon of the prophet Muhammad. Accessing the internet on BlackBerry smartphones is problematic, because of the device's high-security encryption software.Recently the regulator made it impossible for Pakistanis to access the website of Rolling Stone magazine, after it published an article on the high proportion of the national budget in Pakistan that goes on its military.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Internet", "Facebook", "World news", "Technology", "BlackBerry", "Mobile phones", "Media", "Social networking", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan to ban encryption software"},{"date": "2011-07-07T14:39:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's research on renewable energy has been severely hit by a lack of funds, experts say, forcing it to look abroad to import green technologies.The country will aim to boost technology transfer from China and Germany for solar panels and wind turbines, and attract more investment for research and development (R&D), according to its five-year policy on renewable energy, which will be launched in August by the Alternative Energy Development Board.Pakistan already has plans to generate 2,300 megawatts (MW) of electricity from solar and wind sources under an agreement signed last year (19 December) with China's Wind Electric.But some experts say that importing technology is only a short-term fix and that the government should invest more in developing local technologies.\"The funding in renewable energy technology research by the government of Pakistan is close to nothing,\" said Masood Ahmed, head of the Sustainable Development Research Centre at the Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology.There is a \"serious need\" for government funding to tap into the country's huge potential in the sector and \"resolve the deepening power crisis in Pakistan\", he said.The main power resources in Pakistan are oil and gas, but reserves of both are expected to have run out by 2030, according to the state-owned Oil and Gas Development Company, and the country already faces an energy shortfall.\"Previous and present governments have shown that they are only interested in short-term solutions to the present energy crisis, as reflected in mere imports of renewable energy technology,\" said Ahmed.This shows that strengthening research in Pakistan's renewable energy sector is not high on the government's agenda, he added.Pakistan's universities have run pilot projects in areas such as fuel cells, biodiesel, ethanol fuel, innovative lighting systems, fuel cells for vehicles and biogas.But they lack the funds to continue their research and roll out the technologies, according to Arshad Abbasi, water and energy advisor at the Sustainable Development Policy Institute (SDPI).The new policy will set a target of generating five per cent of Pakistan's total commercial energy from alternative and renewable energy sources by 2030.It will offer financial incentives for projects including a manufacturing base for renewable energy plants and components, and will seek to develop the infrastructure for renewable energy programmes with help from the Asian Development Bank and the US Agency for International Development.", "tags": ["Energy", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Pakistan to import green technologies"},{"date": "2011-09-22T21:32:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The American commander of Nato in Afghanistan personally asked Pakistan's army chief to halt an insurgent truck bomb that was heading for his troops, during a meeting in Islamabad two days before a huge explosion that wounded 77 US soldiers at a base near Kabul.In reply General Ashfaq Kayani offered to \"make a phone call\" to stop the assault on the US base in Wardak province. But his failure to use the American intelligence to prevent the attack has fuelled a blazing row between the US and Pakistan.Furious American officials blame the Taliban-inspired group the Haqqanis \u2013 and, by extension, Pakistani intelligence \u2013 for the 10 September bombing and an even more audacious guerrilla assault on the Kabul US embassy three days later that killed 20 people and lasted more than 20 hours.On Thursday the US military chief, Admiral Mike Mullen, described the Haqqanis as \"a veritable arm of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence [spy] agency\". He earlier accused the ISI of fighting a \"proxy war\" in Afghanistan through the group.Pakistan's defence minister, Ahmed Mukhtar, rejected the American accusations of Haqqani patronage as \"baseless\". \"No one can threaten Pakistan as we are an independent state,\" he said.The angry accusations lift the veil on sensitive conversations that have heretofore largely taken place behind closed doors. On 8 September, General John Allen, the Nato commander in Afghanistan, raised intelligence reports of the impending truck bomb at a meeting with Kayani during a visit to Islamabad.Kayani promised Allen he would \"make a phone call\" to try to stop the attack, according to a western official with close knowledge of the meeting. \"The offer raised eyebrows,\" the official said.But two days later, just after Allen's return to Kabul, a truck rigged with explosives ploughed into the gates of the US base in Wardak, 50 miles south-west of Kabul, injuring 77 US soldiers and killing two Afghan civilians.Afterwards the US ambassador to Kabul, Ryan Crocker, blamed the Haqqanis. \"They enjoy safe havens in North Waziristan,\" he said, referring to the Haqqani main base in the tribal belt.Allen's spokesman said Nato \"routinely shares intelligence with the Pakistanis regarding insurgent activities\" but he refused to confirm the details of the conversation with Kayani.The Pakistani military spokesman, General Athar Abbas, said: \"Let's suppose it was the case. The main question is how did this truck travel to Wardak and explode without being checked by Nato? This is just a blame game.\"US allegations of ISI links to Haqqani attacks stretch back to July 2008, when the CIA deputy director, Stephen Kappes, flew to Islamabad with intercept evidence that linked the ISI to an attack on the Indian embassy in Kabul.But American disquiet has never been so uncompromisingly expressed as in recent days. The issue dominated three hours of talks between the secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, and the Pakistani foreign minister, Hina Rabbani Khar.On Tuesday Mullen said he had asked Kayani to \"disconnect\" the ISI from the Haqqanis. In Washington the CIA chief, David Petraeus, delivered a similar message in private to the ISI chief, General Shuja Pasha. Even the soft-spoken US ambassador to Islamabad, Cameron Munter, has joined the chorus of condemnation, delivering a hard-hitting message through an interview on Pakistani state radio.\"We've changed our message in private too,\" one US official said. \"Before, we used to make polite demands about the Haqqanis. Now we are saying 'this has to stop'.\"The new mood is driven by a combination of climbing casualties and brazen attacks. The Haqqanis were also blamed for a recent assault on the InterContinental Hotel, while August was the deadliest month for US forces in Afghanistan, with 71 deaths.Nato is now investigating whether the Haqqanis had a hand in Tuesday's assassination of Burhanuddin Rabbani, President Hamid Karzai's peace envoy to the Taliban. Rabbani was killed at his home by a suicide bomber wearing an explosives-packed turban. A bloodstained four-page letter he was carrying at the time of the attack, a copy of which has been obtained by the Guardian, insisted that \"Pakistan is not our boss\".American officials have vowed to act unilaterally if Pakistan fails to comply with their demands over the Haqqanis. But it remains unclear how far they are willing to go against Pakistan, a nuclear-armed country that still provides vital counter-terrorism support.There was some hope of resuscitating fragile relations between the Pakistani and American intelligence services, which were buffeted by the US raid that killed Osama bin Laden on 2 May. Officials from both countries hailed a joint operation on 28 August to arrest Younis al-Mauritani, a senior al-Qaida operative, in the western city of Quetta. On 5 September the Pakistani military issued a press release that highlighted Pakistani-American co-operation; some viewed the raid as a possible turning point in relations.But the flurry of Haqqani attacks over the past two weeks seems to have washed away whatever goodwill was generated by the arrest.US officials say debate is raging inside US policy circles about what to do next. The defence secretary, Leon Panetta, is said to have privately advocated US military incursions into the Haqqani stronghold in Waziristan \u2013 a risky gambit other officials reject as dangerous folly, citing the historical record of failure of western armies in the tribal belt.Other US officials say Washington could slash non-military aid such as the $7.5bn five-year Kerry-Lugar-Berman package, which was approved in 2009.There is also debate about the exact nature of the ISI's relationship with the Haqqanis. One western official said it was not a puppetmaster scenario. \"It's not like they have a chain of command, with the Pakistanis handing down XOs [executive orders],\" he said. Neither are the Pakistanis necessarily providing logistical support, he added: \"It's murkier than that.\"But, the official added, the US believes Pakistan is \"actively tolerating\" the Haqqanis. And the ISI could, if it wanted to, seriously disrupt their activities.He warned that Pakistan was heading towards international isolation. \"If it keeps going like this, it could end up like Syria \u2013 before the Arab spring.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US military", "US news", "World news", "Nato", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "US bomb warning to Pakistan ignored"},{"date": "2011-09-07T07:28:49Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Suicide bombers have attacked a senior military officer in Quetta, in western Pakistan, killing 23 people including eight soldiers and the officer's wife.Police said they suspected Taliban militants were behind the attack, which comes two days after the army said it had arrested a senior al-Qaida operative in the city.The first bomber struck as the deputy chief of the paramilitary Frontier Corps, which operates across Balochistan province, drove away from his home in a tightly guarded area of the city.A second attacker then stormed into the house, hurling grenades as he went before blowing himself up. The force of the blasts brought down the walls of the house and nearby offices, and ripped through passing rickshaws.Police said the targeted officer, Farrukh Shehzad, had been wounded but the extent of his injuries was not clear. The dead included eight of his guards, his wife and two of his children.No group claimed responsibility for the attack but immediate suspicions fell on al-Qaida-affiliated Taliban militants. On Monday the army said it had arrested Younis al-Mauritani, described as a high-ranking al-Qaida operative, and two associates, in a Quetta suburb.Al-Qaida is still reeling from the US assassination of Osama bin Laden in northern Pakistan on 2 May and continuing drone attacks in the north-western tribal belt, which have targeted its most senior militants.As the strikes have intensified some al-Qaida fighters have fled into nearby Balochistan, where the drones do not operate.The Bin Laden operation created a bitter rift between the CIA and Pakistani intelligence. But officials from both countries hailed the latest arrest as a sign that relationship may be on the mend.Balochistan, a vast province along the Afghan border, has long been a hub for Islamist insurgents. Its northern regions are used by the Afghan Taliban as a rear base for attacks on Nato forces inside Afghanistan.The Taliban's ruling council, known as the Quetta shura, is also believed to be based there, although recent reports suggest it may have effectively shifted to Karachi.Other possible suspects in the attack include Baloch nationalist rebels, with whom the FC has been engaged in a bitter war of attrition for at least six years. But the nationalists do not have a track record of using suicide bombers.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Al-Qaida", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan suicide bombers target top security official"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:45:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Our story that Save the Children flew eight expatriate aid workers out of Pakistan in July for fear that they could have been arrested by Inter-Services Intelligence is a classic example of a term the CIA itself invented: blowback. As we reported in July, the CIA organised a fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad in an attempt to obtain DNA from Osama bin Laden's family to prove their target was definitely there.The Pakistani doctor they used to mount the fake programme, Shakil Afridi, participated in two health-worker training courses run by Save the Children in 2008 and 2010. Under interrogation, Afridi said he told his wife he was working for Save the Children when he was working for the CIA. The ISI then turned their attentions to a major western aid organisation which has no connection either to the doctor or to the fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad, but which helped 7 million people in Pakistan last year, half of whom were caught up in the floods. It might be argued that the means justified the end, that the CIA had to make every effort to find out whether Bin Laden was in that compound, before the US raid. But it cannot be denied that the collateral damage of using aid workers as spies is enormous. Most of Save the Children's workers \u2013 2,000 of them in Pakistan \u2013 are locally hired staff doing brave work in war zones such as the Swat valley.Using aid agencies as cover for intelligence operations is not only deeply cynical. It is dangerous. It endangers the lives of thousands of aid workers who cannot escape or be flown out of the country at a moment's notice as the eight expats were. In Pakistan's case, the anger generated by drone attacks and the CIA's covert operations fills the coffers of the Taliban. When Imran Khan says that his is the \"only country in history which keeps on getting bombed, through drone attacks, by our ally\", and that 35,000 people have been killed in a war that has nothing to do with them, he is surely expressing the feelings of more than just his party. It is hard to find a quicker way to subvert the good that aid does than to militarise it.Caught between the Taliban and the CIA, international aid agencies in Pakistan are being asked to do an impossible job. They are working under incredible pressure. It is, however, also incumbent on them to jealously guard their independence and their neutrality, and not to be seen as another arm of western power. This is not just a matter of where they get their funds from. The gold standard in Pakistan is set by the ICRC and MSF, who have been battling with military authorities to gain access to war zones while operations are still being conducted. Aid agencies not only have to work on their terms. They have to be seen to be doing so.", "tags": ["CIA", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "World news", "US news", "Global development", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: mission impossible | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-08-30T18:26:53Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Millions of internet users in Pakistan will be unable to send emails and messages without fear of government snooping after authorities banned the use of encryption software.A legal notice sent to all internet providers (ISPs) by the Pakistan Telecommunications Authority, seen by the Guardian, orders the ISPs to inform authorities if any of their customers are using virtual private networks (VPNs) to browse the web.Virtual private networks allow internet users to connect to the web undetected, meaning that they can access banned websites and send emails without fear of government interception.Pakistan's 20 million internet users have previously been banned from popular social networks, such as Facebook, because of blasphemous material about the prophet Muhammad. All internet traffic in the country travels through the Pakistan Internet Exchange, which can be intercepted by the military and civil intelligence agencies. The move echoes a crackdown against encrypted communications across the border in India and in China.The Pakistan Telecommunications Authority legal notice urged ISPs to report customers using \"all such mechanisms including EVPNs [encrypted virtual private networks] which conceal communication to the extent that prohibits monitoring\". Anyone needing to use this technology needs to apply for special permission, the notice said.Authorities in Islamabad insisted that the ban on VPN access was intended to stem communications by terrorists.However, banks, call centres and many other businesses use encrypted connections to communicate with their branches and customers, to protect sensitive data such as account numbers and passwords.\"This is like banning cars because suicide bombers use them,\" said Shakir Husain, chief executive of Creative Chaos, a Karachi-based software company. \"You have to find out who these guys [extremists] are. This is a blanket, knee-jerk, response.\"There is strict regulation of internet traffic in Pakistan. Last year, the authorities banned the entire Facebook website for months after a user launched a contest to draw a cartoon of the prophet Muhammad. Accessing the internet on BlackBerry smartphones is problematic, because of the device's high-security encryption software.Recently the regulator made it impossible for Pakistanis to access the website of Rolling Stone magazine, after it published an article on the high proportion of the national budget in Pakistan that goes on its military.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Internet", "Facebook", "World news", "Technology", "BlackBerry", "Mobile phones", "Media", "Social networking", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan to ban encryption software"},{"date": "2011-07-07T14:39:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's research on renewable energy has been severely hit by a lack of funds, experts say, forcing it to look abroad to import green technologies.The country will aim to boost technology transfer from China and Germany for solar panels and wind turbines, and attract more investment for research and development (R&D), according to its five-year policy on renewable energy, which will be launched in August by the Alternative Energy Development Board.Pakistan already has plans to generate 2,300 megawatts (MW) of electricity from solar and wind sources under an agreement signed last year (19 December) with China's Wind Electric.But some experts say that importing technology is only a short-term fix and that the government should invest more in developing local technologies.\"The funding in renewable energy technology research by the government of Pakistan is close to nothing,\" said Masood Ahmed, head of the Sustainable Development Research Centre at the Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology.There is a \"serious need\" for government funding to tap into the country's huge potential in the sector and \"resolve the deepening power crisis in Pakistan\", he said.The main power resources in Pakistan are oil and gas, but reserves of both are expected to have run out by 2030, according to the state-owned Oil and Gas Development Company, and the country already faces an energy shortfall.\"Previous and present governments have shown that they are only interested in short-term solutions to the present energy crisis, as reflected in mere imports of renewable energy technology,\" said Ahmed.This shows that strengthening research in Pakistan's renewable energy sector is not high on the government's agenda, he added.Pakistan's universities have run pilot projects in areas such as fuel cells, biodiesel, ethanol fuel, innovative lighting systems, fuel cells for vehicles and biogas.But they lack the funds to continue their research and roll out the technologies, according to Arshad Abbasi, water and energy advisor at the Sustainable Development Policy Institute (SDPI).The new policy will set a target of generating five per cent of Pakistan's total commercial energy from alternative and renewable energy sources by 2030.It will offer financial incentives for projects including a manufacturing base for renewable energy plants and components, and will seek to develop the infrastructure for renewable energy programmes with help from the Asian Development Bank and the US Agency for International Development.", "tags": ["Energy", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Pakistan to import green technologies"},{"date": "2011-09-22T21:32:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The American commander of Nato in Afghanistan personally asked Pakistan's army chief to halt an insurgent truck bomb that was heading for his troops, during a meeting in Islamabad two days before a huge explosion that wounded 77 US soldiers at a base near Kabul.In reply General Ashfaq Kayani offered to \"make a phone call\" to stop the assault on the US base in Wardak province. But his failure to use the American intelligence to prevent the attack has fuelled a blazing row between the US and Pakistan.Furious American officials blame the Taliban-inspired group the Haqqanis \u2013 and, by extension, Pakistani intelligence \u2013 for the 10 September bombing and an even more audacious guerrilla assault on the Kabul US embassy three days later that killed 20 people and lasted more than 20 hours.On Thursday the US military chief, Admiral Mike Mullen, described the Haqqanis as \"a veritable arm of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence [spy] agency\". He earlier accused the ISI of fighting a \"proxy war\" in Afghanistan through the group.Pakistan's defence minister, Ahmed Mukhtar, rejected the American accusations of Haqqani patronage as \"baseless\". \"No one can threaten Pakistan as we are an independent state,\" he said.The angry accusations lift the veil on sensitive conversations that have heretofore largely taken place behind closed doors. On 8 September, General John Allen, the Nato commander in Afghanistan, raised intelligence reports of the impending truck bomb at a meeting with Kayani during a visit to Islamabad.Kayani promised Allen he would \"make a phone call\" to try to stop the attack, according to a western official with close knowledge of the meeting. \"The offer raised eyebrows,\" the official said.But two days later, just after Allen's return to Kabul, a truck rigged with explosives ploughed into the gates of the US base in Wardak, 50 miles south-west of Kabul, injuring 77 US soldiers and killing two Afghan civilians.Afterwards the US ambassador to Kabul, Ryan Crocker, blamed the Haqqanis. \"They enjoy safe havens in North Waziristan,\" he said, referring to the Haqqani main base in the tribal belt.Allen's spokesman said Nato \"routinely shares intelligence with the Pakistanis regarding insurgent activities\" but he refused to confirm the details of the conversation with Kayani.The Pakistani military spokesman, General Athar Abbas, said: \"Let's suppose it was the case. The main question is how did this truck travel to Wardak and explode without being checked by Nato? This is just a blame game.\"US allegations of ISI links to Haqqani attacks stretch back to July 2008, when the CIA deputy director, Stephen Kappes, flew to Islamabad with intercept evidence that linked the ISI to an attack on the Indian embassy in Kabul.But American disquiet has never been so uncompromisingly expressed as in recent days. The issue dominated three hours of talks between the secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, and the Pakistani foreign minister, Hina Rabbani Khar.On Tuesday Mullen said he had asked Kayani to \"disconnect\" the ISI from the Haqqanis. In Washington the CIA chief, David Petraeus, delivered a similar message in private to the ISI chief, General Shuja Pasha. Even the soft-spoken US ambassador to Islamabad, Cameron Munter, has joined the chorus of condemnation, delivering a hard-hitting message through an interview on Pakistani state radio.\"We've changed our message in private too,\" one US official said. \"Before, we used to make polite demands about the Haqqanis. Now we are saying 'this has to stop'.\"The new mood is driven by a combination of climbing casualties and brazen attacks. The Haqqanis were also blamed for a recent assault on the InterContinental Hotel, while August was the deadliest month for US forces in Afghanistan, with 71 deaths.Nato is now investigating whether the Haqqanis had a hand in Tuesday's assassination of Burhanuddin Rabbani, President Hamid Karzai's peace envoy to the Taliban. Rabbani was killed at his home by a suicide bomber wearing an explosives-packed turban. A bloodstained four-page letter he was carrying at the time of the attack, a copy of which has been obtained by the Guardian, insisted that \"Pakistan is not our boss\".American officials have vowed to act unilaterally if Pakistan fails to comply with their demands over the Haqqanis. But it remains unclear how far they are willing to go against Pakistan, a nuclear-armed country that still provides vital counter-terrorism support.There was some hope of resuscitating fragile relations between the Pakistani and American intelligence services, which were buffeted by the US raid that killed Osama bin Laden on 2 May. Officials from both countries hailed a joint operation on 28 August to arrest Younis al-Mauritani, a senior al-Qaida operative, in the western city of Quetta. On 5 September the Pakistani military issued a press release that highlighted Pakistani-American co-operation; some viewed the raid as a possible turning point in relations.But the flurry of Haqqani attacks over the past two weeks seems to have washed away whatever goodwill was generated by the arrest.US officials say debate is raging inside US policy circles about what to do next. The defence secretary, Leon Panetta, is said to have privately advocated US military incursions into the Haqqani stronghold in Waziristan \u2013 a risky gambit other officials reject as dangerous folly, citing the historical record of failure of western armies in the tribal belt.Other US officials say Washington could slash non-military aid such as the $7.5bn five-year Kerry-Lugar-Berman package, which was approved in 2009.There is also debate about the exact nature of the ISI's relationship with the Haqqanis. One western official said it was not a puppetmaster scenario. \"It's not like they have a chain of command, with the Pakistanis handing down XOs [executive orders],\" he said. Neither are the Pakistanis necessarily providing logistical support, he added: \"It's murkier than that.\"But, the official added, the US believes Pakistan is \"actively tolerating\" the Haqqanis. And the ISI could, if it wanted to, seriously disrupt their activities.He warned that Pakistan was heading towards international isolation. \"If it keeps going like this, it could end up like Syria \u2013 before the Arab spring.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US military", "US news", "World news", "Nato", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "US bomb warning to Pakistan ignored"},{"date": "2011-09-07T07:28:49Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Suicide bombers have attacked a senior military officer in Quetta, in western Pakistan, killing 23 people including eight soldiers and the officer's wife.Police said they suspected Taliban militants were behind the attack, which comes two days after the army said it had arrested a senior al-Qaida operative in the city.The first bomber struck as the deputy chief of the paramilitary Frontier Corps, which operates across Balochistan province, drove away from his home in a tightly guarded area of the city.A second attacker then stormed into the house, hurling grenades as he went before blowing himself up. The force of the blasts brought down the walls of the house and nearby offices, and ripped through passing rickshaws.Police said the targeted officer, Farrukh Shehzad, had been wounded but the extent of his injuries was not clear. The dead included eight of his guards, his wife and two of his children.No group claimed responsibility for the attack but immediate suspicions fell on al-Qaida-affiliated Taliban militants. On Monday the army said it had arrested Younis al-Mauritani, described as a high-ranking al-Qaida operative, and two associates, in a Quetta suburb.Al-Qaida is still reeling from the US assassination of Osama bin Laden in northern Pakistan on 2 May and continuing drone attacks in the north-western tribal belt, which have targeted its most senior militants.As the strikes have intensified some al-Qaida fighters have fled into nearby Balochistan, where the drones do not operate.The Bin Laden operation created a bitter rift between the CIA and Pakistani intelligence. But officials from both countries hailed the latest arrest as a sign that relationship may be on the mend.Balochistan, a vast province along the Afghan border, has long been a hub for Islamist insurgents. Its northern regions are used by the Afghan Taliban as a rear base for attacks on Nato forces inside Afghanistan.The Taliban's ruling council, known as the Quetta shura, is also believed to be based there, although recent reports suggest it may have effectively shifted to Karachi.Other possible suspects in the attack include Baloch nationalist rebels, with whom the FC has been engaged in a bitter war of attrition for at least six years. But the nationalists do not have a track record of using suicide bombers.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Al-Qaida", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan suicide bombers target top security official"},{"date": "2011-08-19T14:17:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A bomb ripped through a crowded mosque in Pakistan's tribal belt, killing at least 40 people who had gathered for Friday prayers and injuring more than 100.The suspected suicide blast was in a village near Jamrud, the main town in the Khyber tribal region, close to the Afghan border. The first major attack in Pakistan during Ramadam, it is thought to be the work of extremists linked to al-Qaida. Some reports put the death toll at more than 50.Locals speculated that the bombing was a revenge attack by the Pakistani Taliban after clashes between militants and tribesmen in recent days. Most of Khyber is not under the control of the Taliban or other militant groups, unlike much of the tribal area.The injured were ferried to hospitals in Peshawar, about a 30-minute drive away, mainly in private cars as few ambulances were available locally. Between 300 and 400 people were at the mosque, which would have been packed for Ramadan \u2013 normally a time of piety and quiet contemplation.\"I don't know what happened or where the bomber came from,\" said a dazed Mustafa Kamal Shinwari, who was injured in the blast, speaking from his hospital bed in Peshawar. \"Just poor people come to the mosque. Is this any way for Muslims to behave? Who-ever did this cannot be a Muslim, no matter what they say.\"Inside the mosque blood was splattered across the floor and covered prayer caps and prayer mats. The walls and roof were scarred by shrapnel, the telltale sign of a suicide vest, which is usually packed with ball-bearings, nails and other metal projectiles.Zahid, a resident who wished to remain anonymous, said the bomber was to one side of the mosque, against a wall. \"If he had stood in the middle of the congregation, the carnage would have been to all sides and he'd have killed maybe a hundred,\" he said.The bomb exploded in an area inhabited by the Kukikhel tribe. Earlier this month, Kukikhel militiamen blew up vehicles carrying a group of Pakistani Taliban in the Tirah valley, a remote and dangerous part of Khyber. More recently locals repelled an incursion by the Taliban. \"The message here from the Taliban is that we can attack you at your home,\" said Zahid.Most of the Nato supplies passing through Pakistan for soldiers fighting in Afghanistan go through Khyber, the most developed part of the tribal area.A local official, Iqbal Khan, said the bomb detonated as worshippers were leaving after offering prayers. Bombs at mosques and other public places are usually not claimed by extremists, so as not to damage their image, leaving a vacuum in which wild conspiracies flourish about who's behind them.\"If this was a suicide attack, then they should do it in Afghanistan, against American or British soldiers. We are Muslims, so why target us?\" said Saeed ur Rehman, who lives close to the blast site. \"But I don't believe it was a suicide bombing. This was a (US) drone attack on the mosque.\"Separately, a missile fired from an American drone killed four suspected militants on Friday in South Waziristan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan mosque bomb kills at least 40"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:45:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Our story that Save the Children flew eight expatriate aid workers out of Pakistan in July for fear that they could have been arrested by Inter-Services Intelligence is a classic example of a term the CIA itself invented: blowback. As we reported in July, the CIA organised a fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad in an attempt to obtain DNA from Osama bin Laden's family to prove their target was definitely there.The Pakistani doctor they used to mount the fake programme, Shakil Afridi, participated in two health-worker training courses run by Save the Children in 2008 and 2010. Under interrogation, Afridi said he told his wife he was working for Save the Children when he was working for the CIA. The ISI then turned their attentions to a major western aid organisation which has no connection either to the doctor or to the fake vaccination programme in Abbottabad, but which helped 7 million people in Pakistan last year, half of whom were caught up in the floods. It might be argued that the means justified the end, that the CIA had to make every effort to find out whether Bin Laden was in that compound, before the US raid. But it cannot be denied that the collateral damage of using aid workers as spies is enormous. Most of Save the Children's workers \u2013 2,000 of them in Pakistan \u2013 are locally hired staff doing brave work in war zones such as the Swat valley.Using aid agencies as cover for intelligence operations is not only deeply cynical. It is dangerous. It endangers the lives of thousands of aid workers who cannot escape or be flown out of the country at a moment's notice as the eight expats were. In Pakistan's case, the anger generated by drone attacks and the CIA's covert operations fills the coffers of the Taliban. When Imran Khan says that his is the \"only country in history which keeps on getting bombed, through drone attacks, by our ally\", and that 35,000 people have been killed in a war that has nothing to do with them, he is surely expressing the feelings of more than just his party. It is hard to find a quicker way to subvert the good that aid does than to militarise it.Caught between the Taliban and the CIA, international aid agencies in Pakistan are being asked to do an impossible job. They are working under incredible pressure. It is, however, also incumbent on them to jealously guard their independence and their neutrality, and not to be seen as another arm of western power. This is not just a matter of where they get their funds from. The gold standard in Pakistan is set by the ICRC and MSF, who have been battling with military authorities to gain access to war zones while operations are still being conducted. Aid agencies not only have to work on their terms. They have to be seen to be doing so.", "tags": ["CIA", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "World news", "US news", "Global development", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan: mission impossible | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-08-30T18:26:53Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Millions of internet users in Pakistan will be unable to send emails and messages without fear of government snooping after authorities banned the use of encryption software.A legal notice sent to all internet providers (ISPs) by the Pakistan Telecommunications Authority, seen by the Guardian, orders the ISPs to inform authorities if any of their customers are using virtual private networks (VPNs) to browse the web.Virtual private networks allow internet users to connect to the web undetected, meaning that they can access banned websites and send emails without fear of government interception.Pakistan's 20 million internet users have previously been banned from popular social networks, such as Facebook, because of blasphemous material about the prophet Muhammad. All internet traffic in the country travels through the Pakistan Internet Exchange, which can be intercepted by the military and civil intelligence agencies. The move echoes a crackdown against encrypted communications across the border in India and in China.The Pakistan Telecommunications Authority legal notice urged ISPs to report customers using \"all such mechanisms including EVPNs [encrypted virtual private networks] which conceal communication to the extent that prohibits monitoring\". Anyone needing to use this technology needs to apply for special permission, the notice said.Authorities in Islamabad insisted that the ban on VPN access was intended to stem communications by terrorists.However, banks, call centres and many other businesses use encrypted connections to communicate with their branches and customers, to protect sensitive data such as account numbers and passwords.\"This is like banning cars because suicide bombers use them,\" said Shakir Husain, chief executive of Creative Chaos, a Karachi-based software company. \"You have to find out who these guys [extremists] are. This is a blanket, knee-jerk, response.\"There is strict regulation of internet traffic in Pakistan. Last year, the authorities banned the entire Facebook website for months after a user launched a contest to draw a cartoon of the prophet Muhammad. Accessing the internet on BlackBerry smartphones is problematic, because of the device's high-security encryption software.Recently the regulator made it impossible for Pakistanis to access the website of Rolling Stone magazine, after it published an article on the high proportion of the national budget in Pakistan that goes on its military.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Internet", "Facebook", "World news", "Technology", "BlackBerry", "Mobile phones", "Media", "Social networking", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan to ban encryption software"},{"date": "2011-07-07T14:39:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's research on renewable energy has been severely hit by a lack of funds, experts say, forcing it to look abroad to import green technologies.The country will aim to boost technology transfer from China and Germany for solar panels and wind turbines, and attract more investment for research and development (R&D), according to its five-year policy on renewable energy, which will be launched in August by the Alternative Energy Development Board.Pakistan already has plans to generate 2,300 megawatts (MW) of electricity from solar and wind sources under an agreement signed last year (19 December) with China's Wind Electric.But some experts say that importing technology is only a short-term fix and that the government should invest more in developing local technologies.\"The funding in renewable energy technology research by the government of Pakistan is close to nothing,\" said Masood Ahmed, head of the Sustainable Development Research Centre at the Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology.There is a \"serious need\" for government funding to tap into the country's huge potential in the sector and \"resolve the deepening power crisis in Pakistan\", he said.The main power resources in Pakistan are oil and gas, but reserves of both are expected to have run out by 2030, according to the state-owned Oil and Gas Development Company, and the country already faces an energy shortfall.\"Previous and present governments have shown that they are only interested in short-term solutions to the present energy crisis, as reflected in mere imports of renewable energy technology,\" said Ahmed.This shows that strengthening research in Pakistan's renewable energy sector is not high on the government's agenda, he added.Pakistan's universities have run pilot projects in areas such as fuel cells, biodiesel, ethanol fuel, innovative lighting systems, fuel cells for vehicles and biogas.But they lack the funds to continue their research and roll out the technologies, according to Arshad Abbasi, water and energy advisor at the Sustainable Development Policy Institute (SDPI).The new policy will set a target of generating five per cent of Pakistan's total commercial energy from alternative and renewable energy sources by 2030.It will offer financial incentives for projects including a manufacturing base for renewable energy plants and components, and will seek to develop the infrastructure for renewable energy programmes with help from the Asian Development Bank and the US Agency for International Development.", "tags": ["Energy", "Renewable energy"], "title": "Pakistan to import green technologies"},{"date": "2011-09-22T21:32:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The American commander of Nato in Afghanistan personally asked Pakistan's army chief to halt an insurgent truck bomb that was heading for his troops, during a meeting in Islamabad two days before a huge explosion that wounded 77 US soldiers at a base near Kabul.In reply General Ashfaq Kayani offered to \"make a phone call\" to stop the assault on the US base in Wardak province. But his failure to use the American intelligence to prevent the attack has fuelled a blazing row between the US and Pakistan.Furious American officials blame the Taliban-inspired group the Haqqanis \u2013 and, by extension, Pakistani intelligence \u2013 for the 10 September bombing and an even more audacious guerrilla assault on the Kabul US embassy three days later that killed 20 people and lasted more than 20 hours.On Thursday the US military chief, Admiral Mike Mullen, described the Haqqanis as \"a veritable arm of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence [spy] agency\". He earlier accused the ISI of fighting a \"proxy war\" in Afghanistan through the group.Pakistan's defence minister, Ahmed Mukhtar, rejected the American accusations of Haqqani patronage as \"baseless\". \"No one can threaten Pakistan as we are an independent state,\" he said.The angry accusations lift the veil on sensitive conversations that have heretofore largely taken place behind closed doors. On 8 September, General John Allen, the Nato commander in Afghanistan, raised intelligence reports of the impending truck bomb at a meeting with Kayani during a visit to Islamabad.Kayani promised Allen he would \"make a phone call\" to try to stop the attack, according to a western official with close knowledge of the meeting. \"The offer raised eyebrows,\" the official said.But two days later, just after Allen's return to Kabul, a truck rigged with explosives ploughed into the gates of the US base in Wardak, 50 miles south-west of Kabul, injuring 77 US soldiers and killing two Afghan civilians.Afterwards the US ambassador to Kabul, Ryan Crocker, blamed the Haqqanis. \"They enjoy safe havens in North Waziristan,\" he said, referring to the Haqqani main base in the tribal belt.Allen's spokesman said Nato \"routinely shares intelligence with the Pakistanis regarding insurgent activities\" but he refused to confirm the details of the conversation with Kayani.The Pakistani military spokesman, General Athar Abbas, said: \"Let's suppose it was the case. The main question is how did this truck travel to Wardak and explode without being checked by Nato? This is just a blame game.\"US allegations of ISI links to Haqqani attacks stretch back to July 2008, when the CIA deputy director, Stephen Kappes, flew to Islamabad with intercept evidence that linked the ISI to an attack on the Indian embassy in Kabul.But American disquiet has never been so uncompromisingly expressed as in recent days. The issue dominated three hours of talks between the secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, and the Pakistani foreign minister, Hina Rabbani Khar.On Tuesday Mullen said he had asked Kayani to \"disconnect\" the ISI from the Haqqanis. In Washington the CIA chief, David Petraeus, delivered a similar message in private to the ISI chief, General Shuja Pasha. Even the soft-spoken US ambassador to Islamabad, Cameron Munter, has joined the chorus of condemnation, delivering a hard-hitting message through an interview on Pakistani state radio.\"We've changed our message in private too,\" one US official said. \"Before, we used to make polite demands about the Haqqanis. Now we are saying 'this has to stop'.\"The new mood is driven by a combination of climbing casualties and brazen attacks. The Haqqanis were also blamed for a recent assault on the InterContinental Hotel, while August was the deadliest month for US forces in Afghanistan, with 71 deaths.Nato is now investigating whether the Haqqanis had a hand in Tuesday's assassination of Burhanuddin Rabbani, President Hamid Karzai's peace envoy to the Taliban. Rabbani was killed at his home by a suicide bomber wearing an explosives-packed turban. A bloodstained four-page letter he was carrying at the time of the attack, a copy of which has been obtained by the Guardian, insisted that \"Pakistan is not our boss\".American officials have vowed to act unilaterally if Pakistan fails to comply with their demands over the Haqqanis. But it remains unclear how far they are willing to go against Pakistan, a nuclear-armed country that still provides vital counter-terrorism support.There was some hope of resuscitating fragile relations between the Pakistani and American intelligence services, which were buffeted by the US raid that killed Osama bin Laden on 2 May. Officials from both countries hailed a joint operation on 28 August to arrest Younis al-Mauritani, a senior al-Qaida operative, in the western city of Quetta. On 5 September the Pakistani military issued a press release that highlighted Pakistani-American co-operation; some viewed the raid as a possible turning point in relations.But the flurry of Haqqani attacks over the past two weeks seems to have washed away whatever goodwill was generated by the arrest.US officials say debate is raging inside US policy circles about what to do next. The defence secretary, Leon Panetta, is said to have privately advocated US military incursions into the Haqqani stronghold in Waziristan \u2013 a risky gambit other officials reject as dangerous folly, citing the historical record of failure of western armies in the tribal belt.Other US officials say Washington could slash non-military aid such as the $7.5bn five-year Kerry-Lugar-Berman package, which was approved in 2009.There is also debate about the exact nature of the ISI's relationship with the Haqqanis. One western official said it was not a puppetmaster scenario. \"It's not like they have a chain of command, with the Pakistanis handing down XOs [executive orders],\" he said. Neither are the Pakistanis necessarily providing logistical support, he added: \"It's murkier than that.\"But, the official added, the US believes Pakistan is \"actively tolerating\" the Haqqanis. And the ISI could, if it wanted to, seriously disrupt their activities.He warned that Pakistan was heading towards international isolation. \"If it keeps going like this, it could end up like Syria \u2013 before the Arab spring.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "US military", "US news", "World news", "Nato", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "US bomb warning to Pakistan ignored"},{"date": "2011-09-07T07:28:49Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Suicide bombers have attacked a senior military officer in Quetta, in western Pakistan, killing 23 people including eight soldiers and the officer's wife.Police said they suspected Taliban militants were behind the attack, which comes two days after the army said it had arrested a senior al-Qaida operative in the city.The first bomber struck as the deputy chief of the paramilitary Frontier Corps, which operates across Balochistan province, drove away from his home in a tightly guarded area of the city.A second attacker then stormed into the house, hurling grenades as he went before blowing himself up. The force of the blasts brought down the walls of the house and nearby offices, and ripped through passing rickshaws.Police said the targeted officer, Farrukh Shehzad, had been wounded but the extent of his injuries was not clear. The dead included eight of his guards, his wife and two of his children.No group claimed responsibility for the attack but immediate suspicions fell on al-Qaida-affiliated Taliban militants. On Monday the army said it had arrested Younis al-Mauritani, described as a high-ranking al-Qaida operative, and two associates, in a Quetta suburb.Al-Qaida is still reeling from the US assassination of Osama bin Laden in northern Pakistan on 2 May and continuing drone attacks in the north-western tribal belt, which have targeted its most senior militants.As the strikes have intensified some al-Qaida fighters have fled into nearby Balochistan, where the drones do not operate.The Bin Laden operation created a bitter rift between the CIA and Pakistani intelligence. But officials from both countries hailed the latest arrest as a sign that relationship may be on the mend.Balochistan, a vast province along the Afghan border, has long been a hub for Islamist insurgents. Its northern regions are used by the Afghan Taliban as a rear base for attacks on Nato forces inside Afghanistan.The Taliban's ruling council, known as the Quetta shura, is also believed to be based there, although recent reports suggest it may have effectively shifted to Karachi.Other possible suspects in the attack include Baloch nationalist rebels, with whom the FC has been engaged in a bitter war of attrition for at least six years. But the nationalists do not have a track record of using suicide bombers.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Al-Qaida", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan suicide bombers target top security official"},{"date": "2011-08-19T14:17:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A bomb ripped through a crowded mosque in Pakistan's tribal belt, killing at least 40 people who had gathered for Friday prayers and injuring more than 100.The suspected suicide blast was in a village near Jamrud, the main town in the Khyber tribal region, close to the Afghan border. The first major attack in Pakistan during Ramadam, it is thought to be the work of extremists linked to al-Qaida. Some reports put the death toll at more than 50.Locals speculated that the bombing was a revenge attack by the Pakistani Taliban after clashes between militants and tribesmen in recent days. Most of Khyber is not under the control of the Taliban or other militant groups, unlike much of the tribal area.The injured were ferried to hospitals in Peshawar, about a 30-minute drive away, mainly in private cars as few ambulances were available locally. Between 300 and 400 people were at the mosque, which would have been packed for Ramadan \u2013 normally a time of piety and quiet contemplation.\"I don't know what happened or where the bomber came from,\" said a dazed Mustafa Kamal Shinwari, who was injured in the blast, speaking from his hospital bed in Peshawar. \"Just poor people come to the mosque. Is this any way for Muslims to behave? Who-ever did this cannot be a Muslim, no matter what they say.\"Inside the mosque blood was splattered across the floor and covered prayer caps and prayer mats. The walls and roof were scarred by shrapnel, the telltale sign of a suicide vest, which is usually packed with ball-bearings, nails and other metal projectiles.Zahid, a resident who wished to remain anonymous, said the bomber was to one side of the mosque, against a wall. \"If he had stood in the middle of the congregation, the carnage would have been to all sides and he'd have killed maybe a hundred,\" he said.The bomb exploded in an area inhabited by the Kukikhel tribe. Earlier this month, Kukikhel militiamen blew up vehicles carrying a group of Pakistani Taliban in the Tirah valley, a remote and dangerous part of Khyber. More recently locals repelled an incursion by the Taliban. \"The message here from the Taliban is that we can attack you at your home,\" said Zahid.Most of the Nato supplies passing through Pakistan for soldiers fighting in Afghanistan go through Khyber, the most developed part of the tribal area.A local official, Iqbal Khan, said the bomb detonated as worshippers were leaving after offering prayers. Bombs at mosques and other public places are usually not claimed by extremists, so as not to damage their image, leaving a vacuum in which wild conspiracies flourish about who's behind them.\"If this was a suicide attack, then they should do it in Afghanistan, against American or British soldiers. We are Muslims, so why target us?\" said Saeed ur Rehman, who lives close to the blast site. \"But I don't believe it was a suicide bombing. This was a (US) drone attack on the mosque.\"Separately, a missile fired from an American drone killed four suspected militants on Friday in South Waziristan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan mosque bomb kills at least 40"},{"date": "2011-08-02T14:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "As soon as Hina Rabbani Khar touched down in New Delhi last week to meet SM Krishna, her Indian counterpart, #HRK and #Birkin \u2013 her initials and the name of her handbag \u2013 began trending worldwide on Twitter.Across the border, reactions to Khar \u2013 who, at 34, is Pakistan's youngest foreign minister \u2013 were surprising. The Indian media gushed (\"First they sent bombs, now they send bombshells\"), while Pakistan's was less enamoured (\"Does this expensively dressed minister represent a country which is under hefty debt?\"). But Khar \u2013 Hermes purse, Roberto Cavalli sunglasses and all \u2013 very much represents Pakistan. And especially Pakistani political culture.The rich-poor disconnect in Pakistan is increasing. A 2010 study estimated that 32% of Pakistan's 180 million population subsists below the poverty line. According to the Human Development Index, 60.3% live on under $2 a day. Wealth distribution in Pakistan is highly uneven and the richest pay little in taxes; Khar only paid Rs8,000 (less than \u00a360) in taxes last year. So her ability to accessorise while millions in her country are homeless jobless and malnourished is hardly surprising. It is indicative of the gulf between the haves and the have-nots in Pakistan today.Khar's early political career is symbolic of Pakistan's version of democracy, where political parties are treated like family heirlooms and party leadership as an inheritance. Although Khar was elected twice to the national assembly \u2013 on a pro-Musharraf ticket in 2002 and on a pro-Benazir ticket in 2008 \u2013 she has never publicly campaigned to win an election. Her seat has been held by the Khar family for years and she owes her win largely to her politician father, Ghulam Noor Rabbani Khar,who, not having graduated from college, could not run himself. Mr Khar propped her up instead, campaigning on her behalf and ensuring her win from rural, conservative Muzaffargarh, where their family owns land, fisheries, mango orchards, sugar cane fields, and reigns supreme.Given the military and Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate's long history of involvement in Pakistan's foreign policy, many wonder how Khar can make a difference, especially when her predecessor apparently lost his job for resisting diplomatic immunity for CIA operative Raymond Davis, who killed two Pakistanis in January. As part of a government that has had its hands tied by the army, and a nation that is often labelled \"an army with a country, not a country with an army\", Khar and her prime minister are not the real decision-makers. And no foreign minister will be any time soon.Yet she offers hope. Pakistan has countless women like Khar \u2013 perhaps not in terms of lifestyle, but in how they choose to live their lives, dedicated to public service. From Fatima Jinnah to Benazir Bhutto, from Sherry Rehman to Asma Jahangir, Pakistani women are no shrinking violets. During the draconian Zia years, it was women who led the protests. Women artists, entrepreneurs, politicians, authors and professionals have always rejected the corseted roles men have sought to cast them in.Although the Hudood laws continue to cripple the status of women in Pakistan today, the Women's Act, the criminal law amendment against \"honour\" killing, the protection against harassment of women at the workplace bill, and the acid control and acid crime prevention laws are powerful strides forward. Today, nearly 30% of doctors and 22% of parliamentarians \u2013 including the national assembly speaker \u2013 are women. In 2009 Khar became the first woman to present the federal budget in parliament. Pakistani women are dynamic and unafraid, and this fact is one of the saving graces of our benighted country.Khar has been criticised for being too young and for having a degree in hospitality management. But we are a young country with a young population (the median age is 21), so it is fitting that we have a young representative. While her father has no degree, Khar has two (the other in economics).What was achieved in Khar and Krishna's first meeting represented a marked change in outlook for the relationship between the two nations. Both sides agreed to boost trade by doubling the number of days the Kashmiri line of control would be open for commerce. Pakistan will give India most favoured nation status and India will lower tariff duties. Travel restrictions will be eased.India issued a statement that could be read to mean it was satisfied with Pakistan's progress in the 2008 Mumbai attacks case.We still have a long way to go. It is unfair to expect Khar to magically set right a history plagued with distrust. Our relations with India and America are complicated, and will remain so. But by confidently reaching out to India, she represents Pakistan and its people's aspirations better than any man \u2013 military or civilian \u2013 ever could.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "India", "Kashmir", "Women in politics", "Gender", "Politics", "Equality", "Society", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Hina Rabbani Khar offers hope to Pakistan | Shehrbano Taseer"},{"date": "2011-11-27T20:35:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Readers of Dawn newspaper, commenting online, were in no doubt how the Pakistani government should respond to Saturday's killing by US forces of 24 soldiers on Pakistan's side of the Afghan border. \"Pakistan should acquire anti-aircraft defence systems ... so that in the future Pakistan can give Nato forces a proper reply,\" said Ali. \"This is outrageous,\" wrote another reader, Zia Khan. \"We should cut off all ties with the US. As long as we are getting US [anti-terror] aid ... Pakistan will be attacked in such a manner. They can never be trusted.\" Another, Obaid, turned his wrath on the Pakistani authorities: \"Our self-centred establishment with their fickle loyalties can't even demand that the killers be tried in a neutral court ... What is the ability of our armed forces? If they can't repel or intercept an attack of this intensity, then what's their purpose? This is not a time to get mad. It's time to get even.\"The fury of these respondents comes as no surprise, but Washington should treat it with deadly seriousness all the same, for this latest outrage is another fateful signpost on the road to a potential security and geostrategic disaster that may ultimately make Afghanistan look like a sideshow.The 10-year-old Afghan war, neither wholly won nor lost, is slowly drawing to a close \u2013 or so Washington postulates. But what has not stopped is the linked, escalating destabilisation of the infinitely more important, more populous, and nuclear-armed Pakistan. If Washington does not quickly learn to tread more carefully, it may find the first US-Pakistan war is beginning just as the fourth Afghan war supposedly ends.Anti-American feeling in Pakistan is becoming institutionalised at the higher levels of government, while opposition figures such as Imran Khan see their popularity rise on the back of diatribes aimed at Washington. Pakistan's western-educated, secular political elite is under brutal attack from Islamist militants who revile them as Washington's stooges. The knock-kneed government is mocked and despised for failing to stand up to its infidel paymasters even as Pakistan's own \"war on terror\" death toll rises into the tens of thousands.Since 2001, when the Bush administration bluntly told Islamabad it must take sides, be either \"for us or agin us\" in the newly declared \"war on terror\", Pakistan has struggled under a plethora of imperious American demands, d\u00e9marches and impositions that are at once politically indefensible and contrary to the perceived national interest.The last year has been another humiliating one at the hands of the country's principal ally. Pakistanis have looked on impotently as US special forces flouted its sovereignty and killed Osama bin Laden under the army's nose; as the US stepped up drone terror attacks in Pakistani territory despite repeated protests; and as people-pleasing US senators and Republican presidential candidates have taken to picking on Pakistan and its aid bill in uninformed foreign policy rants.Hillary Clinton and the Pentagon top brass have responded to Saturday's killing with the usual expressions of regret and of determination to \"investigate\", without formally admitting responsibility. Their pronouncements are worthless, transparently so.The belief that weak, impoverished, divided Pakistan has no alternative but to slavishly obey its master's voice could turn out to be one of the seminal strategic miscalculations of the 21st century. Alternative alliances with China or Russia aside, Muslim Pakistan, if bullied and scorned for long enough by its western mentors, could yet morph through external trauma and internal collapse into quite a different animal. The future paradigm here is not another well-trained Indonesia or Malaysia. It is the Islamic Republic of Iran.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "US military"], "title": "Pakistan has had enough | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2011-11-27T20:35:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Readers of Dawn newspaper, commenting online, were in no doubt how the Pakistani government should respond to Saturday's killing by US forces of 24 soldiers on Pakistan's side of the Afghan border. \"Pakistan should acquire anti-aircraft defence systems ... so that in the future Pakistan can give Nato forces a proper reply,\" said Ali. \"This is outrageous,\" wrote another reader, Zia Khan. \"We should cut off all ties with the US. As long as we are getting US [anti-terror] aid ... Pakistan will be attacked in such a manner. They can never be trusted.\" Another, Obaid, turned his wrath on the Pakistani authorities: \"Our self-centred establishment with their fickle loyalties can't even demand that the killers be tried in a neutral court ... What is the ability of our armed forces? If they can't repel or intercept an attack of this intensity, then what's their purpose? This is not a time to get mad. It's time to get even.\"The fury of these respondents comes as no surprise, but Washington should treat it with deadly seriousness all the same, for this latest outrage is another fateful signpost on the road to a potential security and geostrategic disaster that may ultimately make Afghanistan look like a sideshow.The 10-year-old Afghan war, neither wholly won nor lost, is slowly drawing to a close \u2013 or so Washington postulates. But what has not stopped is the linked, escalating destabilisation of the infinitely more important, more populous, and nuclear-armed Pakistan. If Washington does not quickly learn to tread more carefully, it may find the first US-Pakistan war is beginning just as the fourth Afghan war supposedly ends.Anti-American feeling in Pakistan is becoming institutionalised at the higher levels of government, while opposition figures such as Imran Khan see their popularity rise on the back of diatribes aimed at Washington. Pakistan's western-educated, secular political elite is under brutal attack from Islamist militants who revile them as Washington's stooges. The knock-kneed government is mocked and despised for failing to stand up to its infidel paymasters even as Pakistan's own \"war on terror\" death toll rises into the tens of thousands.Since 2001, when the Bush administration bluntly told Islamabad it must take sides, be either \"for us or agin us\" in the newly declared \"war on terror\", Pakistan has struggled under a plethora of imperious American demands, d\u00e9marches and impositions that are at once politically indefensible and contrary to the perceived national interest.The last year has been another humiliating one at the hands of the country's principal ally. Pakistanis have looked on impotently as US special forces flouted its sovereignty and killed Osama bin Laden under the army's nose; as the US stepped up drone terror attacks in Pakistani territory despite repeated protests; and as people-pleasing US senators and Republican presidential candidates have taken to picking on Pakistan and its aid bill in uninformed foreign policy rants.Hillary Clinton and the Pentagon top brass have responded to Saturday's killing with the usual expressions of regret and of determination to \"investigate\", without formally admitting responsibility. Their pronouncements are worthless, transparently so.The belief that weak, impoverished, divided Pakistan has no alternative but to slavishly obey its master's voice could turn out to be one of the seminal strategic miscalculations of the 21st century. Alternative alliances with China or Russia aside, Muslim Pakistan, if bullied and scorned for long enough by its western mentors, could yet morph through external trauma and internal collapse into quite a different animal. The future paradigm here is not another well-trained Indonesia or Malaysia. It is the Islamic Republic of Iran.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "US military"], "title": "Pakistan has had enough | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2011-11-27T12:32:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is considering boycotting an international conference on the future of Afghanistan in retaliation for the deaths of 24 Pakistani soldiers who came under attack from Nato helicopters at a border checkpost.The Pakistani military alleged that the attack 1.5 miles inside Pakistani territory in the early hours of Saturday was deliberate, as it was a well-known position manned by regular troops. US officials have suggested the Nato force was acting in self-defence.Funerals were held for the dead soldiers in Peshawar on Sunday. Prayers conducted in front of 24 coffins, each wrapped in a Pakistani flag, were televised live. The army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, attended the service at a military base, as did leading officials from the north-west provincial administration.Television channels repeatedly replayed images of the funeral, set to patriotic music usually reserved for wartime. Kayani, considered the most powerful man in the country, visited a hospital in Peshawar to meet soldiers injured in the incident.The conference in Bonn, scheduled for 5 December, will mark a decade since the German city hosted the first international meeting to chalk out Afghanistan's future. It had once been hoped that the meeting might kick off the peace process in Afghanistan, but expectations had already been lowered even before this weekend.If a key regional player such as Pakistan stays away, the event will appear even more hollow. Pakistan's co-operation is considered vital for stabilising Afghanistan and bringing the Taliban into negotiations.Tehmina Janjua, of Pakistan's ministry of foreign affairs, said the Bonn issue was \"being examined and no decision has yet been taken in this regard\".Pakistan announced late on Saturday that it had blocked supplies to Nato forces passing through the country. Half of Nato supplies pass by land through Pakistan. Islamabad also said it would stop USuse of the Shamsi airbase, in the west of the country. Shamsi had been used in the past to fly drone aircraft, which target suspected militants in Pakistan's tribal area; it is unclear whether the base was still used for armed drones.Nato pledged a full investigation into the attack. \"I have written to the prime minister of Pakistan to make it clear that the deaths of Pakistani personnel are as unacceptable and deplorable as the deaths of Afghan and international personnel,\" said Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Nato's secretary general. \"This was a tragic unintended incident.\"Events leading up to the incident remain unclear. In the past, much confusion has been caused by Taliban insurgents firing into Afghanistan from positions close to Pakistani checkposts, making it appear to Nato and Afghan troops that they are coming under attack from the Pakistani posts. Pakistani soldiers have previously shot into the air to warn Nato helicopters that they have crossed the border, but that has been mistaken by the aircraft crew for incoming fire.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nato", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan may boycott Afghan summit"},{"date": "2011-11-27T20:35:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Readers of Dawn newspaper, commenting online, were in no doubt how the Pakistani government should respond to Saturday's killing by US forces of 24 soldiers on Pakistan's side of the Afghan border. \"Pakistan should acquire anti-aircraft defence systems ... so that in the future Pakistan can give Nato forces a proper reply,\" said Ali. \"This is outrageous,\" wrote another reader, Zia Khan. \"We should cut off all ties with the US. As long as we are getting US [anti-terror] aid ... Pakistan will be attacked in such a manner. They can never be trusted.\" Another, Obaid, turned his wrath on the Pakistani authorities: \"Our self-centred establishment with their fickle loyalties can't even demand that the killers be tried in a neutral court ... What is the ability of our armed forces? If they can't repel or intercept an attack of this intensity, then what's their purpose? This is not a time to get mad. It's time to get even.\"The fury of these respondents comes as no surprise, but Washington should treat it with deadly seriousness all the same, for this latest outrage is another fateful signpost on the road to a potential security and geostrategic disaster that may ultimately make Afghanistan look like a sideshow.The 10-year-old Afghan war, neither wholly won nor lost, is slowly drawing to a close \u2013 or so Washington postulates. But what has not stopped is the linked, escalating destabilisation of the infinitely more important, more populous, and nuclear-armed Pakistan. If Washington does not quickly learn to tread more carefully, it may find the first US-Pakistan war is beginning just as the fourth Afghan war supposedly ends.Anti-American feeling in Pakistan is becoming institutionalised at the higher levels of government, while opposition figures such as Imran Khan see their popularity rise on the back of diatribes aimed at Washington. Pakistan's western-educated, secular political elite is under brutal attack from Islamist militants who revile them as Washington's stooges. The knock-kneed government is mocked and despised for failing to stand up to its infidel paymasters even as Pakistan's own \"war on terror\" death toll rises into the tens of thousands.Since 2001, when the Bush administration bluntly told Islamabad it must take sides, be either \"for us or agin us\" in the newly declared \"war on terror\", Pakistan has struggled under a plethora of imperious American demands, d\u00e9marches and impositions that are at once politically indefensible and contrary to the perceived national interest.The last year has been another humiliating one at the hands of the country's principal ally. Pakistanis have looked on impotently as US special forces flouted its sovereignty and killed Osama bin Laden under the army's nose; as the US stepped up drone terror attacks in Pakistani territory despite repeated protests; and as people-pleasing US senators and Republican presidential candidates have taken to picking on Pakistan and its aid bill in uninformed foreign policy rants.Hillary Clinton and the Pentagon top brass have responded to Saturday's killing with the usual expressions of regret and of determination to \"investigate\", without formally admitting responsibility. Their pronouncements are worthless, transparently so.The belief that weak, impoverished, divided Pakistan has no alternative but to slavishly obey its master's voice could turn out to be one of the seminal strategic miscalculations of the 21st century. Alternative alliances with China or Russia aside, Muslim Pakistan, if bullied and scorned for long enough by its western mentors, could yet morph through external trauma and internal collapse into quite a different animal. The future paradigm here is not another well-trained Indonesia or Malaysia. It is the Islamic Republic of Iran.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "US military"], "title": "Pakistan has had enough | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2011-11-27T12:32:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is considering boycotting an international conference on the future of Afghanistan in retaliation for the deaths of 24 Pakistani soldiers who came under attack from Nato helicopters at a border checkpost.The Pakistani military alleged that the attack 1.5 miles inside Pakistani territory in the early hours of Saturday was deliberate, as it was a well-known position manned by regular troops. US officials have suggested the Nato force was acting in self-defence.Funerals were held for the dead soldiers in Peshawar on Sunday. Prayers conducted in front of 24 coffins, each wrapped in a Pakistani flag, were televised live. The army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, attended the service at a military base, as did leading officials from the north-west provincial administration.Television channels repeatedly replayed images of the funeral, set to patriotic music usually reserved for wartime. Kayani, considered the most powerful man in the country, visited a hospital in Peshawar to meet soldiers injured in the incident.The conference in Bonn, scheduled for 5 December, will mark a decade since the German city hosted the first international meeting to chalk out Afghanistan's future. It had once been hoped that the meeting might kick off the peace process in Afghanistan, but expectations had already been lowered even before this weekend.If a key regional player such as Pakistan stays away, the event will appear even more hollow. Pakistan's co-operation is considered vital for stabilising Afghanistan and bringing the Taliban into negotiations.Tehmina Janjua, of Pakistan's ministry of foreign affairs, said the Bonn issue was \"being examined and no decision has yet been taken in this regard\".Pakistan announced late on Saturday that it had blocked supplies to Nato forces passing through the country. Half of Nato supplies pass by land through Pakistan. Islamabad also said it would stop USuse of the Shamsi airbase, in the west of the country. Shamsi had been used in the past to fly drone aircraft, which target suspected militants in Pakistan's tribal area; it is unclear whether the base was still used for armed drones.Nato pledged a full investigation into the attack. \"I have written to the prime minister of Pakistan to make it clear that the deaths of Pakistani personnel are as unacceptable and deplorable as the deaths of Afghan and international personnel,\" said Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Nato's secretary general. \"This was a tragic unintended incident.\"Events leading up to the incident remain unclear. In the past, much confusion has been caused by Taliban insurgents firing into Afghanistan from positions close to Pakistani checkposts, making it appear to Nato and Afghan troops that they are coming under attack from the Pakistani posts. Pakistani soldiers have previously shot into the air to warn Nato helicopters that they have crossed the border, but that has been mistaken by the aircraft crew for incoming fire.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nato", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan may boycott Afghan summit"},{"date": "2011-12-15T21:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Even before you reach Pakistan there's reason to fret. \"Ladies and gentlemen, we will be landing shortly, inshallah,\" says the Pakistan International Airlines pilot, 10 minutes outside Islamabad. To the western ear this ancient invocation \u2013 literally \"God willing\" \u2013 can be disconcerting: you pray the crew are relying on more than divine providence to set down safety. But these days it's about right \u2013 Pakistan, a country buffeted by mysterious if not entirely holy forces, seems to have surrendered to its fate.Viewed from the outside, Pakistan looms as the Fukushima of fundamentalism: a volatile, treacherous place filled with frothing Islamists and double-dealing generals, leaking plutonium-grade terrorist trouble. Forget the \"world's most dangerous country\" moniker, by now old hat. Look to recent coverage: \"Hornet's Nest\" declares this week's Economist; \"The Ally from Hell\" proclaims the Atlantic.Western condemnation has a moral quality, the tinge of wounded betrayal. Much of it is rooted in Afghanistan, where many blame Pakistan for the Taliban resurgence. Some years ago a senior UN official in Kabul warned me the US could launch unilateral airstrikes if Pakistan didn't get into line. Surely it would be unwise to destabilise a nuclear-armed country of 170m people, I said. \"Well,\" he shot back grimly. \"Maybe they deserve it.\"Yet for all the stone-throwing, hard facts are elusive. Did the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) spy agency really shelter Bin Laden? Does it control the notorious Haqqani network? Did it play a role in the 2008 Mumbai attacks? If smoking guns abound, the Pakistanis are remarkably good at wiping their fingerprints from the trigger. Instead, we are left with a murky stew of allegations, coincidences and the steamy whispers of western spies.Perhaps the embodiment of this conundrum is Pervez Musharraf, the former military ruler once beloved of the west. In a recent interview the BBC's Stephen Sackur harangued him about Pakistani perfidy. What of the Taliban safe havens? Sackur demanded. Or the Quetta Shura? Or reports that the monocular Taliban leader, Mullah Omar, resides happily in Pakistani suburbia? Musharraf sat through the mauling, visibly bristling, then shot back. \"You say it is true. I say it is all nonsense,\" he said, wearing his trademark wounded-puppy face. \"This is a mirage. This is what people say. This is what you think.\" [My italics].But what should we think \u2013 conspiracy, cockup or thinly veiled chaos? Puzzling out the answers to that question has been central to my seven years reporting from Pakistan for the Guardian. Much of it was dominated by the banner dramas: bombs and political heaves, spy scandals and shootings. But there were also, I discovered, truths to be gleaned from the smaller things \u2013 such as the way people drive.Pakistanis swerve into heavy traffic without looking, don't stick to their lane or indicate, which makes it hard to predict where they are coming from or going to. Social graces are rare \u2013 horns honk, headlights are impatiently flashed \u2013 but social hierarchy is observed: hulking four-wheel drives (increasingly armour-plated) barge through the swarms of matchbox cars. Off to the side, the police are taking bribes.But pull off the road and everything changes. Pakistanis are welcoming, generous and voluble. They insist you stay for tea, or the night. They love to gab, often with glorious indiscretion \u2013 national politics and local tattle, cricket scandals, movie stars and conspiracy theories. This is fun, and good for the business of journalism.While Islam is technically the glue of society, you learn, the real bonds are forged around clans, tribes, personal contacts. To get anything done, the official route is often pointless \u2013 the key is sifarish, the reference of an influential friend. Journalists use sifarish a lot; occasionally they are called on to dispense it too.Late one night, shortly after the last election, I got a surprise phone call from a ruling party official. Previously chatty and relaxed, he spoke in a loud and oddly deliberate voice. \"Do you remember that place you mentioned last night \u2013 the 'Cat House'?\" he said. I remembered no such thing. \"Well, the police have turned up,\" he continued. \"And I was hoping you might have a word with them.\" Seconds later the line dropped; I didn't call back.Two days later the papers carried reports of a police raid on a speakeasy-cum-brothel in a smart part of Islamabad, called the Cathouse. They arrested Russian and Chinese women, dozens of bottles of liquor and a number of punters \u2013 including a newly elected ruling party MP and his entourage, including my friend. But they were released without charge, the reports noted, after a phone call from a \"higher-up\" in government.I thought that was the end of the matter until a police video of the raid surfaced on the internet some months later. It showed officers storming into the Cathouse, arguing with Russian women and at, at one point, a middle-aged man in a crowded corridor, shouting into his phone.\"Do you remember that place you mentioned last night?\" says my friend \"The Cathouse?\"Such laughs have been regrettably rare. When I arrived in 2004, Islamabad was a somnolent, reliably dull city. By night, the sons of the rich drag-raced their daddies' cars along deserted streets, swerving to avoid wild boar ambling from the bushes. Foreigners mocked the capital for its provincial feel. \"Islamabad \u2013 half the size of a New York graveyard but twice as dead\" went the diplomats' tired gag as white-gloved waiters served gin and tonic on manicured lawns.Then the Taliban came to town. It started with the bloody siege of the Red mosque complex in July 2007, just before Pakistan's 60th birthday. Bullets zipped through the leafy streets; I dusted off my flak jacket. Then came the bombs: at markets, checkposts, the Naval headquarters, UN offices, the five-star Marriott hotel. Up the street from my house, Benazir Bhutto gave speeches from behind barbed wire, during a brief-lived house arrest. Weeks later she drove out to Rawalpindi, where she was assassinated.Today the blasts have stopped, mostly, but the city is cloistered in concrete. Fortified walls rise over the streets, vehicles slalom through elaborate checkposts, hotel entrances resemble prisons with gold-buttoned guards. Embassies are retreating into a sandbagged, Green Zone-style enclave; the presidency and even ISI headquarters are similarly isolated.That, however, is just the cosseted capital \u2013 the real pain has been felt elsewhere. Pakistan has paid a high blood price for what my guardian colleague Jason Burke calls the \"9/11 wars\". Since 2001, up to 5,000 Pakistanis have died in more that 300 suicide attacks; the victims range from toddlers to three-star generals. Another 13,000 have been wounded. This is partly the legacy from the military's decades-old dabbling in Islamist extremism, but for most Pakistanis the culprit is America.Television shows fizz with anti-American anger; many say the \"Ally from Hell\" epithet applies to the US, not them. Things have never been worse: outrage at the killing of 24 Pakistani soldiers in a murky border incident triggered a blockade on Nato supplies, the closure of a CIA drone base and the boycott of a conference on the future of Afghanistan \u2013 and that's just in the last week.Washington, meanwhile, is moving to restrict $700m (\u00a3450m) in aid. The relationship is beset by frustrations and misunderstandings on both sides, but the net effect is that Pakistanis are more profoundly isolated from the outside world than they have been in decades. This cannot be good.Many Pakistanis \u2013 educated, ambitious, modern \u2013 resent being lumped in with the terrorists. \"Why don't you write about the other Pakistan?\" is a frequent refrain \u2013 \"other\" being the country of software companies, pizza dinners, effervescent art shows and quality literature. When I could, I did, with a tendency towards the counter-intuitive: the booming brewery across the street from military headquarters; the transvestite civil rights movement, the punk rock bands and oxygen bars and rambunctious polo tournaments in the heights of the Hindu Kush. But perhaps the most memorable experiences were rooted in the rich cultural and religious heritage. One of my best trips was in Sehwan Sharif in Sindh, a glorious Sufi festival on the banks of the Indus with a mesmeric mix of party and prayer \u2013 a spectacle to make the head spin and the heart sing.Still, there's no getting around it: Pakistan is beset with problems that no amount of jolly beer stories or whirling dervishes can remedy. It is, as a psychologist might say, a country with serious issues. Most are decades old \u2013 the overweening army, the confused place of Islam, the covert support for jihad, deep-rooted corruption, the poisoned bond with America. Resolving them has never been so urgent.One reason is Afghanistan. As western troops draw down by 2014, Pakistan can help construct a stable future for the war-ravaged country \u2013 or spoil a deal it dislikes. But beyond that, it is the internal stability of Pakistan that is more worrying. The country is riven by ethnic, tribal and political faultlines, which, in turn, are being exacerbated by galloping population growth and deepening poverty. Turmoil in a country with at least 120 nuclear warheads and a projected population of 300m people by 2030 could make Afghanistan look like a walk in the park. Talk of a \"nuclear Somalia\" is overstated, but you get the point.Yet there is little sign of revolution. As the Arab spring swept the Middle East, Pakistan was quiet because, in a sense, it already has what others are demanding: elections. The problem is that few like the results. Asif Ali Zardari, the accidental president, suffers a crippling legitimacy deficit driven by perceptions of corruption and a more fundamental struggle for supremacy. Just a few years ago the army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, mused to the US ambassador about the possibility of a coup. Last week, Zardari suddenly flew to Dubai, triggering fresh speculation that such an upset was about to happen. The hype seems unfounded, and Zardari says he will soon return. But few doubt Kayani is the real power.Will ordinary Pakistanis tire of this power game? While there is no sign of a spring tide, millions of tiny waves are lapping the shores of despair. In October, Raja Khan, an unemployed man from Sindh province, travelled hundreds of miles to Islamabad. Standing outside parliament he doused himself in kerosene then struck a match. Hours later, racked with pain, the 23-year-old died. Poverty had ground him down, Khan said in a farewell note. As his coffin was nailed shut, his wife gave birth to their third son. His elderly father cried out: \"Oh, Zardari, where are you?\"It's not just Pakistan \u2013 over the seven years foreign correspondence changed drastically, too. In 2004, the Guardian focused on UK readers; today, through the internet, our audience is at once global and intensely local. Pakistanis leap on every story, scrutinising and commenting, particularly on Twitter, a medium many have embraced with gusto. It helps to project less obvious stories, such as a feature on the appalling wave of alleged state-sponsored killings in Balochistan earlier this year. But the intriguing feedback I received came in the form of an old-fashioned letter. Charles Burman was 92 years old, a former British army signals sergeant who had fought a long forgotten colonial campaign in the tribal belt in the 1930s and 40s. In wobbly handwriting he sent a fascinating account of his experiences; Waziristan was pretty dangerous back then, too, it turns out.Not everyone liked the coverage. Fatima Bhutto, niece of the assassinated Benazir, once suggested I was \"on the PPP payroll\", referring to the government party; pro-government blogs suggested I was peddling the ISI line; the ISI monitored my phone calls and occasionally rang to voice its own displeasure. The US military in Afghanistan blacklisted me briefly; the Taliban called with a ransom demand for a kidnapped hostage; Pervez Musharraf threatened to sue. That was all fine \u2013 multi-directional criticism is a compliment \u2013 but sometimes the story came a little too close.In 2008 a Guardian fixer was abducted and tortured while investigating a story on intelligence agency abduction and torture. Last year, for a few nail-biting hours, a close friend's father was caught up in a brutal gun-attack on a mosque belonging to the minority Ahmadi community in Lahore. He survived but more than 100 others died. The bombings took a toll. A few minutes after the 2008 suicide bombing of the Marriott, a hotel where I got my hair cut and had coffee with contacts, I found myself standing in the rubble, dazed by the enormity of the atrocity. A giant crater occupied the park, staff in bloodstained uniforms stumbled through the lobby, hunting for survivors, orange flames licked the ash-laden sky. Blood squelched underfoot.Retreating outside I found a preppy looking young man sitting on the verge, staring numbly into the inferno. His name was Ehsan Peerzada and he was 19 years old, articulate and educated, the son of a senior civil servant. In other circumstances, I might have interviewed him for a story on savvy, westernised Pakistanis. Now he railed in a stream of invective against everyone \u2013 Islamist extremists, Americans, drone strikes \u2013 struggling to make sense of it all. \"It's not fair,\" he mumbled. \"It's not fair.\"It's not all darkness; away from the bang-bang, life in Pakistan can be richly rewarding. I've been humbled by inspiring figures, traversed jaw-dropping landscapes and attended some wild parties, on one occasion with a roomful of transvestites. Where else can you find yourself with a bearded, joint-rolling characters, as I once did in Peshawar, nicknamed \"Mullah Omar\"? Even the news can be fun. Some years ago the cricket board issued a press release detailing \"genital warts\" of its errant star, Shoaib Akhtar. These days, bomb stories vie for space with Veena Malik, a daring actress who appeared topless wearing nothing but a tattoo that read \"ISI\". Malik has denounced the pictures, claiming \u2013 but of course \u2013 that they are the product of conspiracy.I hoped that my reporting portrayed the rich complexity of a society that, below the surface, defies its stereotypes. But on some occasions there was just nothing to be said. A few months ago I visited a house in Rawalpindi with a giant poster over the windows, depicting a heroic warrior on a gallant white steed. The warrior was Mumtaz Qadri, the police bodyguard who gunned down the Punjab governor Salmaan Taseer, last January, and this was his house.Outside, young children shouted slogans for Qadri, a curly-bearded extremist who killed Taseer because he championed the case of a poor Christian woman who had been prosecuted under the country's notorious blasphemy laws. Others joined them, protesting against Qadri's prosecution for murder. The air was thick with talk of persecution. \"Qadri is a great martyr,\" said one man. \"What he did is permitted by Islam.\" Then the crowd poured through the streets and on to the highway leading to Islamabad. The police closed the road and watched.The celebration of Qadri, a deluded fanatic, was deeply depressing. So was the fact that nobody dared raise their voice against his supporters, not even the government. Instead, the judge who sentenced Qadri has fled Pakistan. Aasia Bibi, the Christian at the heart of the furore, remains in jail. And Taseer's son, Shahbaz, has been kidnapped \u2013 probably by Qadri sympathisers. An ugly spectacle, it betrays questions about something deeply unhealthy at the core of Pakistani society.Still, many Pakistanis have similar doubts. There is a striking amount of national introspection in a hearteningly vibrant press. But which way out of the quagmire? Imran Khan, the cricket star turned political sensation, says he has answers. He exudes the confidence of a man who believes his time has come.But his ideas are controversial and, critics say, naive. His stance against \"politics\" echoes that of Musharraf a decade ago \u2013 a perception he will have to work hard to dispel.People often ask the most basic question about Pakistan: will it survive? The question has been going round for decades; the naysayers inevitably silenced. Is the current situation any more precarious? The country has deep stores of resilience, but is more vulnerable to external shocks than ever before. One thing, however, is clear: inshallah may have worked until now, but it is no longer enough.Declan Walsh's book Insh'Allah Nation is out next year. twitter.com/declanwalsh", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Asif Ali Zardari"], "title": "Pakistan: bombs, spies and wild parties"},{"date": "2011-11-27T20:35:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Readers of Dawn newspaper, commenting online, were in no doubt how the Pakistani government should respond to Saturday's killing by US forces of 24 soldiers on Pakistan's side of the Afghan border. \"Pakistan should acquire anti-aircraft defence systems ... so that in the future Pakistan can give Nato forces a proper reply,\" said Ali. \"This is outrageous,\" wrote another reader, Zia Khan. \"We should cut off all ties with the US. As long as we are getting US [anti-terror] aid ... Pakistan will be attacked in such a manner. They can never be trusted.\" Another, Obaid, turned his wrath on the Pakistani authorities: \"Our self-centred establishment with their fickle loyalties can't even demand that the killers be tried in a neutral court ... What is the ability of our armed forces? If they can't repel or intercept an attack of this intensity, then what's their purpose? This is not a time to get mad. It's time to get even.\"The fury of these respondents comes as no surprise, but Washington should treat it with deadly seriousness all the same, for this latest outrage is another fateful signpost on the road to a potential security and geostrategic disaster that may ultimately make Afghanistan look like a sideshow.The 10-year-old Afghan war, neither wholly won nor lost, is slowly drawing to a close \u2013 or so Washington postulates. But what has not stopped is the linked, escalating destabilisation of the infinitely more important, more populous, and nuclear-armed Pakistan. If Washington does not quickly learn to tread more carefully, it may find the first US-Pakistan war is beginning just as the fourth Afghan war supposedly ends.Anti-American feeling in Pakistan is becoming institutionalised at the higher levels of government, while opposition figures such as Imran Khan see their popularity rise on the back of diatribes aimed at Washington. Pakistan's western-educated, secular political elite is under brutal attack from Islamist militants who revile them as Washington's stooges. The knock-kneed government is mocked and despised for failing to stand up to its infidel paymasters even as Pakistan's own \"war on terror\" death toll rises into the tens of thousands.Since 2001, when the Bush administration bluntly told Islamabad it must take sides, be either \"for us or agin us\" in the newly declared \"war on terror\", Pakistan has struggled under a plethora of imperious American demands, d\u00e9marches and impositions that are at once politically indefensible and contrary to the perceived national interest.The last year has been another humiliating one at the hands of the country's principal ally. Pakistanis have looked on impotently as US special forces flouted its sovereignty and killed Osama bin Laden under the army's nose; as the US stepped up drone terror attacks in Pakistani territory despite repeated protests; and as people-pleasing US senators and Republican presidential candidates have taken to picking on Pakistan and its aid bill in uninformed foreign policy rants.Hillary Clinton and the Pentagon top brass have responded to Saturday's killing with the usual expressions of regret and of determination to \"investigate\", without formally admitting responsibility. Their pronouncements are worthless, transparently so.The belief that weak, impoverished, divided Pakistan has no alternative but to slavishly obey its master's voice could turn out to be one of the seminal strategic miscalculations of the 21st century. Alternative alliances with China or Russia aside, Muslim Pakistan, if bullied and scorned for long enough by its western mentors, could yet morph through external trauma and internal collapse into quite a different animal. The future paradigm here is not another well-trained Indonesia or Malaysia. It is the Islamic Republic of Iran.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "US military"], "title": "Pakistan has had enough | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2011-11-27T12:32:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is considering boycotting an international conference on the future of Afghanistan in retaliation for the deaths of 24 Pakistani soldiers who came under attack from Nato helicopters at a border checkpost.The Pakistani military alleged that the attack 1.5 miles inside Pakistani territory in the early hours of Saturday was deliberate, as it was a well-known position manned by regular troops. US officials have suggested the Nato force was acting in self-defence.Funerals were held for the dead soldiers in Peshawar on Sunday. Prayers conducted in front of 24 coffins, each wrapped in a Pakistani flag, were televised live. The army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, attended the service at a military base, as did leading officials from the north-west provincial administration.Television channels repeatedly replayed images of the funeral, set to patriotic music usually reserved for wartime. Kayani, considered the most powerful man in the country, visited a hospital in Peshawar to meet soldiers injured in the incident.The conference in Bonn, scheduled for 5 December, will mark a decade since the German city hosted the first international meeting to chalk out Afghanistan's future. It had once been hoped that the meeting might kick off the peace process in Afghanistan, but expectations had already been lowered even before this weekend.If a key regional player such as Pakistan stays away, the event will appear even more hollow. Pakistan's co-operation is considered vital for stabilising Afghanistan and bringing the Taliban into negotiations.Tehmina Janjua, of Pakistan's ministry of foreign affairs, said the Bonn issue was \"being examined and no decision has yet been taken in this regard\".Pakistan announced late on Saturday that it had blocked supplies to Nato forces passing through the country. Half of Nato supplies pass by land through Pakistan. Islamabad also said it would stop USuse of the Shamsi airbase, in the west of the country. Shamsi had been used in the past to fly drone aircraft, which target suspected militants in Pakistan's tribal area; it is unclear whether the base was still used for armed drones.Nato pledged a full investigation into the attack. \"I have written to the prime minister of Pakistan to make it clear that the deaths of Pakistani personnel are as unacceptable and deplorable as the deaths of Afghan and international personnel,\" said Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Nato's secretary general. \"This was a tragic unintended incident.\"Events leading up to the incident remain unclear. In the past, much confusion has been caused by Taliban insurgents firing into Afghanistan from positions close to Pakistani checkposts, making it appear to Nato and Afghan troops that they are coming under attack from the Pakistani posts. Pakistani soldiers have previously shot into the air to warn Nato helicopters that they have crossed the border, but that has been mistaken by the aircraft crew for incoming fire.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nato", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan may boycott Afghan summit"},{"date": "2011-12-15T21:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Even before you reach Pakistan there's reason to fret. \"Ladies and gentlemen, we will be landing shortly, inshallah,\" says the Pakistan International Airlines pilot, 10 minutes outside Islamabad. To the western ear this ancient invocation \u2013 literally \"God willing\" \u2013 can be disconcerting: you pray the crew are relying on more than divine providence to set down safety. But these days it's about right \u2013 Pakistan, a country buffeted by mysterious if not entirely holy forces, seems to have surrendered to its fate.Viewed from the outside, Pakistan looms as the Fukushima of fundamentalism: a volatile, treacherous place filled with frothing Islamists and double-dealing generals, leaking plutonium-grade terrorist trouble. Forget the \"world's most dangerous country\" moniker, by now old hat. Look to recent coverage: \"Hornet's Nest\" declares this week's Economist; \"The Ally from Hell\" proclaims the Atlantic.Western condemnation has a moral quality, the tinge of wounded betrayal. Much of it is rooted in Afghanistan, where many blame Pakistan for the Taliban resurgence. Some years ago a senior UN official in Kabul warned me the US could launch unilateral airstrikes if Pakistan didn't get into line. Surely it would be unwise to destabilise a nuclear-armed country of 170m people, I said. \"Well,\" he shot back grimly. \"Maybe they deserve it.\"Yet for all the stone-throwing, hard facts are elusive. Did the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) spy agency really shelter Bin Laden? Does it control the notorious Haqqani network? Did it play a role in the 2008 Mumbai attacks? If smoking guns abound, the Pakistanis are remarkably good at wiping their fingerprints from the trigger. Instead, we are left with a murky stew of allegations, coincidences and the steamy whispers of western spies.Perhaps the embodiment of this conundrum is Pervez Musharraf, the former military ruler once beloved of the west. In a recent interview the BBC's Stephen Sackur harangued him about Pakistani perfidy. What of the Taliban safe havens? Sackur demanded. Or the Quetta Shura? Or reports that the monocular Taliban leader, Mullah Omar, resides happily in Pakistani suburbia? Musharraf sat through the mauling, visibly bristling, then shot back. \"You say it is true. I say it is all nonsense,\" he said, wearing his trademark wounded-puppy face. \"This is a mirage. This is what people say. This is what you think.\" [My italics].But what should we think \u2013 conspiracy, cockup or thinly veiled chaos? Puzzling out the answers to that question has been central to my seven years reporting from Pakistan for the Guardian. Much of it was dominated by the banner dramas: bombs and political heaves, spy scandals and shootings. But there were also, I discovered, truths to be gleaned from the smaller things \u2013 such as the way people drive.Pakistanis swerve into heavy traffic without looking, don't stick to their lane or indicate, which makes it hard to predict where they are coming from or going to. Social graces are rare \u2013 horns honk, headlights are impatiently flashed \u2013 but social hierarchy is observed: hulking four-wheel drives (increasingly armour-plated) barge through the swarms of matchbox cars. Off to the side, the police are taking bribes.But pull off the road and everything changes. Pakistanis are welcoming, generous and voluble. They insist you stay for tea, or the night. They love to gab, often with glorious indiscretion \u2013 national politics and local tattle, cricket scandals, movie stars and conspiracy theories. This is fun, and good for the business of journalism.While Islam is technically the glue of society, you learn, the real bonds are forged around clans, tribes, personal contacts. To get anything done, the official route is often pointless \u2013 the key is sifarish, the reference of an influential friend. Journalists use sifarish a lot; occasionally they are called on to dispense it too.Late one night, shortly after the last election, I got a surprise phone call from a ruling party official. Previously chatty and relaxed, he spoke in a loud and oddly deliberate voice. \"Do you remember that place you mentioned last night \u2013 the 'Cat House'?\" he said. I remembered no such thing. \"Well, the police have turned up,\" he continued. \"And I was hoping you might have a word with them.\" Seconds later the line dropped; I didn't call back.Two days later the papers carried reports of a police raid on a speakeasy-cum-brothel in a smart part of Islamabad, called the Cathouse. They arrested Russian and Chinese women, dozens of bottles of liquor and a number of punters \u2013 including a newly elected ruling party MP and his entourage, including my friend. But they were released without charge, the reports noted, after a phone call from a \"higher-up\" in government.I thought that was the end of the matter until a police video of the raid surfaced on the internet some months later. It showed officers storming into the Cathouse, arguing with Russian women and at, at one point, a middle-aged man in a crowded corridor, shouting into his phone.\"Do you remember that place you mentioned last night?\" says my friend \"The Cathouse?\"Such laughs have been regrettably rare. When I arrived in 2004, Islamabad was a somnolent, reliably dull city. By night, the sons of the rich drag-raced their daddies' cars along deserted streets, swerving to avoid wild boar ambling from the bushes. Foreigners mocked the capital for its provincial feel. \"Islamabad \u2013 half the size of a New York graveyard but twice as dead\" went the diplomats' tired gag as white-gloved waiters served gin and tonic on manicured lawns.Then the Taliban came to town. It started with the bloody siege of the Red mosque complex in July 2007, just before Pakistan's 60th birthday. Bullets zipped through the leafy streets; I dusted off my flak jacket. Then came the bombs: at markets, checkposts, the Naval headquarters, UN offices, the five-star Marriott hotel. Up the street from my house, Benazir Bhutto gave speeches from behind barbed wire, during a brief-lived house arrest. Weeks later she drove out to Rawalpindi, where she was assassinated.Today the blasts have stopped, mostly, but the city is cloistered in concrete. Fortified walls rise over the streets, vehicles slalom through elaborate checkposts, hotel entrances resemble prisons with gold-buttoned guards. Embassies are retreating into a sandbagged, Green Zone-style enclave; the presidency and even ISI headquarters are similarly isolated.That, however, is just the cosseted capital \u2013 the real pain has been felt elsewhere. Pakistan has paid a high blood price for what my guardian colleague Jason Burke calls the \"9/11 wars\". Since 2001, up to 5,000 Pakistanis have died in more that 300 suicide attacks; the victims range from toddlers to three-star generals. Another 13,000 have been wounded. This is partly the legacy from the military's decades-old dabbling in Islamist extremism, but for most Pakistanis the culprit is America.Television shows fizz with anti-American anger; many say the \"Ally from Hell\" epithet applies to the US, not them. Things have never been worse: outrage at the killing of 24 Pakistani soldiers in a murky border incident triggered a blockade on Nato supplies, the closure of a CIA drone base and the boycott of a conference on the future of Afghanistan \u2013 and that's just in the last week.Washington, meanwhile, is moving to restrict $700m (\u00a3450m) in aid. The relationship is beset by frustrations and misunderstandings on both sides, but the net effect is that Pakistanis are more profoundly isolated from the outside world than they have been in decades. This cannot be good.Many Pakistanis \u2013 educated, ambitious, modern \u2013 resent being lumped in with the terrorists. \"Why don't you write about the other Pakistan?\" is a frequent refrain \u2013 \"other\" being the country of software companies, pizza dinners, effervescent art shows and quality literature. When I could, I did, with a tendency towards the counter-intuitive: the booming brewery across the street from military headquarters; the transvestite civil rights movement, the punk rock bands and oxygen bars and rambunctious polo tournaments in the heights of the Hindu Kush. But perhaps the most memorable experiences were rooted in the rich cultural and religious heritage. One of my best trips was in Sehwan Sharif in Sindh, a glorious Sufi festival on the banks of the Indus with a mesmeric mix of party and prayer \u2013 a spectacle to make the head spin and the heart sing.Still, there's no getting around it: Pakistan is beset with problems that no amount of jolly beer stories or whirling dervishes can remedy. It is, as a psychologist might say, a country with serious issues. Most are decades old \u2013 the overweening army, the confused place of Islam, the covert support for jihad, deep-rooted corruption, the poisoned bond with America. Resolving them has never been so urgent.One reason is Afghanistan. As western troops draw down by 2014, Pakistan can help construct a stable future for the war-ravaged country \u2013 or spoil a deal it dislikes. But beyond that, it is the internal stability of Pakistan that is more worrying. The country is riven by ethnic, tribal and political faultlines, which, in turn, are being exacerbated by galloping population growth and deepening poverty. Turmoil in a country with at least 120 nuclear warheads and a projected population of 300m people by 2030 could make Afghanistan look like a walk in the park. Talk of a \"nuclear Somalia\" is overstated, but you get the point.Yet there is little sign of revolution. As the Arab spring swept the Middle East, Pakistan was quiet because, in a sense, it already has what others are demanding: elections. The problem is that few like the results. Asif Ali Zardari, the accidental president, suffers a crippling legitimacy deficit driven by perceptions of corruption and a more fundamental struggle for supremacy. Just a few years ago the army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, mused to the US ambassador about the possibility of a coup. Last week, Zardari suddenly flew to Dubai, triggering fresh speculation that such an upset was about to happen. The hype seems unfounded, and Zardari says he will soon return. But few doubt Kayani is the real power.Will ordinary Pakistanis tire of this power game? While there is no sign of a spring tide, millions of tiny waves are lapping the shores of despair. In October, Raja Khan, an unemployed man from Sindh province, travelled hundreds of miles to Islamabad. Standing outside parliament he doused himself in kerosene then struck a match. Hours later, racked with pain, the 23-year-old died. Poverty had ground him down, Khan said in a farewell note. As his coffin was nailed shut, his wife gave birth to their third son. His elderly father cried out: \"Oh, Zardari, where are you?\"It's not just Pakistan \u2013 over the seven years foreign correspondence changed drastically, too. In 2004, the Guardian focused on UK readers; today, through the internet, our audience is at once global and intensely local. Pakistanis leap on every story, scrutinising and commenting, particularly on Twitter, a medium many have embraced with gusto. It helps to project less obvious stories, such as a feature on the appalling wave of alleged state-sponsored killings in Balochistan earlier this year. But the intriguing feedback I received came in the form of an old-fashioned letter. Charles Burman was 92 years old, a former British army signals sergeant who had fought a long forgotten colonial campaign in the tribal belt in the 1930s and 40s. In wobbly handwriting he sent a fascinating account of his experiences; Waziristan was pretty dangerous back then, too, it turns out.Not everyone liked the coverage. Fatima Bhutto, niece of the assassinated Benazir, once suggested I was \"on the PPP payroll\", referring to the government party; pro-government blogs suggested I was peddling the ISI line; the ISI monitored my phone calls and occasionally rang to voice its own displeasure. The US military in Afghanistan blacklisted me briefly; the Taliban called with a ransom demand for a kidnapped hostage; Pervez Musharraf threatened to sue. That was all fine \u2013 multi-directional criticism is a compliment \u2013 but sometimes the story came a little too close.In 2008 a Guardian fixer was abducted and tortured while investigating a story on intelligence agency abduction and torture. Last year, for a few nail-biting hours, a close friend's father was caught up in a brutal gun-attack on a mosque belonging to the minority Ahmadi community in Lahore. He survived but more than 100 others died. The bombings took a toll. A few minutes after the 2008 suicide bombing of the Marriott, a hotel where I got my hair cut and had coffee with contacts, I found myself standing in the rubble, dazed by the enormity of the atrocity. A giant crater occupied the park, staff in bloodstained uniforms stumbled through the lobby, hunting for survivors, orange flames licked the ash-laden sky. Blood squelched underfoot.Retreating outside I found a preppy looking young man sitting on the verge, staring numbly into the inferno. His name was Ehsan Peerzada and he was 19 years old, articulate and educated, the son of a senior civil servant. In other circumstances, I might have interviewed him for a story on savvy, westernised Pakistanis. Now he railed in a stream of invective against everyone \u2013 Islamist extremists, Americans, drone strikes \u2013 struggling to make sense of it all. \"It's not fair,\" he mumbled. \"It's not fair.\"It's not all darkness; away from the bang-bang, life in Pakistan can be richly rewarding. I've been humbled by inspiring figures, traversed jaw-dropping landscapes and attended some wild parties, on one occasion with a roomful of transvestites. Where else can you find yourself with a bearded, joint-rolling characters, as I once did in Peshawar, nicknamed \"Mullah Omar\"? Even the news can be fun. Some years ago the cricket board issued a press release detailing \"genital warts\" of its errant star, Shoaib Akhtar. These days, bomb stories vie for space with Veena Malik, a daring actress who appeared topless wearing nothing but a tattoo that read \"ISI\". Malik has denounced the pictures, claiming \u2013 but of course \u2013 that they are the product of conspiracy.I hoped that my reporting portrayed the rich complexity of a society that, below the surface, defies its stereotypes. But on some occasions there was just nothing to be said. A few months ago I visited a house in Rawalpindi with a giant poster over the windows, depicting a heroic warrior on a gallant white steed. The warrior was Mumtaz Qadri, the police bodyguard who gunned down the Punjab governor Salmaan Taseer, last January, and this was his house.Outside, young children shouted slogans for Qadri, a curly-bearded extremist who killed Taseer because he championed the case of a poor Christian woman who had been prosecuted under the country's notorious blasphemy laws. Others joined them, protesting against Qadri's prosecution for murder. The air was thick with talk of persecution. \"Qadri is a great martyr,\" said one man. \"What he did is permitted by Islam.\" Then the crowd poured through the streets and on to the highway leading to Islamabad. The police closed the road and watched.The celebration of Qadri, a deluded fanatic, was deeply depressing. So was the fact that nobody dared raise their voice against his supporters, not even the government. Instead, the judge who sentenced Qadri has fled Pakistan. Aasia Bibi, the Christian at the heart of the furore, remains in jail. And Taseer's son, Shahbaz, has been kidnapped \u2013 probably by Qadri sympathisers. An ugly spectacle, it betrays questions about something deeply unhealthy at the core of Pakistani society.Still, many Pakistanis have similar doubts. There is a striking amount of national introspection in a hearteningly vibrant press. But which way out of the quagmire? Imran Khan, the cricket star turned political sensation, says he has answers. He exudes the confidence of a man who believes his time has come.But his ideas are controversial and, critics say, naive. His stance against \"politics\" echoes that of Musharraf a decade ago \u2013 a perception he will have to work hard to dispel.People often ask the most basic question about Pakistan: will it survive? The question has been going round for decades; the naysayers inevitably silenced. Is the current situation any more precarious? The country has deep stores of resilience, but is more vulnerable to external shocks than ever before. One thing, however, is clear: inshallah may have worked until now, but it is no longer enough.Declan Walsh's book Insh'Allah Nation is out next year. twitter.com/declanwalsh", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Asif Ali Zardari"], "title": "Pakistan: bombs, spies and wild parties"},{"date": "2011-11-30T00:46:43Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The BBC's World News has been taken off the air in Pakistan after broadcasting a documentary that was deemed to be critical of the country. Secret Pakistan, which was screened\u00a0last Wednesday, explored accusations by CIA officials and western diplomats that Pakistan was failing to meet its commitments in the \"war on terror\". Khalid Arain, president of the country's cable TV association, said operators had blocked the BBC service as a result.The BBC condemned the decision, which is understood to have been applied to other foreign news broadcasters airing \"anti-Pakistan\" content as well.\"We are deeply concerned that BBC World News has been taken off air by the Cable Association of Pakistan,\" said a BBC spokesman.\"We condemn any action that threatens our editorial independence and prevents audiences from accessing our impartial international news service. We would urge that BBC World News and other international news services are reinstated as soon as possible.\"The service was suspended in parts of Pakistan today, with the broadcaster expected to be off-air across the whole country by tomorrow.The blocking of the BBC comes amid high tensions following Nato air strikes that accidentally killed 24 Pakistani soldiers on Saturday.", "tags": ["BBC", "BBC World Service", "Media", "UK news", "Pakistan", "World news", "Television industry", "BBC Worldwide"], "title": "BBC World News blocked in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-11-27T20:35:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Readers of Dawn newspaper, commenting online, were in no doubt how the Pakistani government should respond to Saturday's killing by US forces of 24 soldiers on Pakistan's side of the Afghan border. \"Pakistan should acquire anti-aircraft defence systems ... so that in the future Pakistan can give Nato forces a proper reply,\" said Ali. \"This is outrageous,\" wrote another reader, Zia Khan. \"We should cut off all ties with the US. As long as we are getting US [anti-terror] aid ... Pakistan will be attacked in such a manner. They can never be trusted.\" Another, Obaid, turned his wrath on the Pakistani authorities: \"Our self-centred establishment with their fickle loyalties can't even demand that the killers be tried in a neutral court ... What is the ability of our armed forces? If they can't repel or intercept an attack of this intensity, then what's their purpose? This is not a time to get mad. It's time to get even.\"The fury of these respondents comes as no surprise, but Washington should treat it with deadly seriousness all the same, for this latest outrage is another fateful signpost on the road to a potential security and geostrategic disaster that may ultimately make Afghanistan look like a sideshow.The 10-year-old Afghan war, neither wholly won nor lost, is slowly drawing to a close \u2013 or so Washington postulates. But what has not stopped is the linked, escalating destabilisation of the infinitely more important, more populous, and nuclear-armed Pakistan. If Washington does not quickly learn to tread more carefully, it may find the first US-Pakistan war is beginning just as the fourth Afghan war supposedly ends.Anti-American feeling in Pakistan is becoming institutionalised at the higher levels of government, while opposition figures such as Imran Khan see their popularity rise on the back of diatribes aimed at Washington. Pakistan's western-educated, secular political elite is under brutal attack from Islamist militants who revile them as Washington's stooges. The knock-kneed government is mocked and despised for failing to stand up to its infidel paymasters even as Pakistan's own \"war on terror\" death toll rises into the tens of thousands.Since 2001, when the Bush administration bluntly told Islamabad it must take sides, be either \"for us or agin us\" in the newly declared \"war on terror\", Pakistan has struggled under a plethora of imperious American demands, d\u00e9marches and impositions that are at once politically indefensible and contrary to the perceived national interest.The last year has been another humiliating one at the hands of the country's principal ally. Pakistanis have looked on impotently as US special forces flouted its sovereignty and killed Osama bin Laden under the army's nose; as the US stepped up drone terror attacks in Pakistani territory despite repeated protests; and as people-pleasing US senators and Republican presidential candidates have taken to picking on Pakistan and its aid bill in uninformed foreign policy rants.Hillary Clinton and the Pentagon top brass have responded to Saturday's killing with the usual expressions of regret and of determination to \"investigate\", without formally admitting responsibility. Their pronouncements are worthless, transparently so.The belief that weak, impoverished, divided Pakistan has no alternative but to slavishly obey its master's voice could turn out to be one of the seminal strategic miscalculations of the 21st century. Alternative alliances with China or Russia aside, Muslim Pakistan, if bullied and scorned for long enough by its western mentors, could yet morph through external trauma and internal collapse into quite a different animal. The future paradigm here is not another well-trained Indonesia or Malaysia. It is the Islamic Republic of Iran.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "US military"], "title": "Pakistan has had enough | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2011-11-27T12:32:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is considering boycotting an international conference on the future of Afghanistan in retaliation for the deaths of 24 Pakistani soldiers who came under attack from Nato helicopters at a border checkpost.The Pakistani military alleged that the attack 1.5 miles inside Pakistani territory in the early hours of Saturday was deliberate, as it was a well-known position manned by regular troops. US officials have suggested the Nato force was acting in self-defence.Funerals were held for the dead soldiers in Peshawar on Sunday. Prayers conducted in front of 24 coffins, each wrapped in a Pakistani flag, were televised live. The army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, attended the service at a military base, as did leading officials from the north-west provincial administration.Television channels repeatedly replayed images of the funeral, set to patriotic music usually reserved for wartime. Kayani, considered the most powerful man in the country, visited a hospital in Peshawar to meet soldiers injured in the incident.The conference in Bonn, scheduled for 5 December, will mark a decade since the German city hosted the first international meeting to chalk out Afghanistan's future. It had once been hoped that the meeting might kick off the peace process in Afghanistan, but expectations had already been lowered even before this weekend.If a key regional player such as Pakistan stays away, the event will appear even more hollow. Pakistan's co-operation is considered vital for stabilising Afghanistan and bringing the Taliban into negotiations.Tehmina Janjua, of Pakistan's ministry of foreign affairs, said the Bonn issue was \"being examined and no decision has yet been taken in this regard\".Pakistan announced late on Saturday that it had blocked supplies to Nato forces passing through the country. Half of Nato supplies pass by land through Pakistan. Islamabad also said it would stop USuse of the Shamsi airbase, in the west of the country. Shamsi had been used in the past to fly drone aircraft, which target suspected militants in Pakistan's tribal area; it is unclear whether the base was still used for armed drones.Nato pledged a full investigation into the attack. \"I have written to the prime minister of Pakistan to make it clear that the deaths of Pakistani personnel are as unacceptable and deplorable as the deaths of Afghan and international personnel,\" said Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Nato's secretary general. \"This was a tragic unintended incident.\"Events leading up to the incident remain unclear. In the past, much confusion has been caused by Taliban insurgents firing into Afghanistan from positions close to Pakistani checkposts, making it appear to Nato and Afghan troops that they are coming under attack from the Pakistani posts. Pakistani soldiers have previously shot into the air to warn Nato helicopters that they have crossed the border, but that has been mistaken by the aircraft crew for incoming fire.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nato", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan may boycott Afghan summit"},{"date": "2011-12-15T21:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Even before you reach Pakistan there's reason to fret. \"Ladies and gentlemen, we will be landing shortly, inshallah,\" says the Pakistan International Airlines pilot, 10 minutes outside Islamabad. To the western ear this ancient invocation \u2013 literally \"God willing\" \u2013 can be disconcerting: you pray the crew are relying on more than divine providence to set down safety. But these days it's about right \u2013 Pakistan, a country buffeted by mysterious if not entirely holy forces, seems to have surrendered to its fate.Viewed from the outside, Pakistan looms as the Fukushima of fundamentalism: a volatile, treacherous place filled with frothing Islamists and double-dealing generals, leaking plutonium-grade terrorist trouble. Forget the \"world's most dangerous country\" moniker, by now old hat. Look to recent coverage: \"Hornet's Nest\" declares this week's Economist; \"The Ally from Hell\" proclaims the Atlantic.Western condemnation has a moral quality, the tinge of wounded betrayal. Much of it is rooted in Afghanistan, where many blame Pakistan for the Taliban resurgence. Some years ago a senior UN official in Kabul warned me the US could launch unilateral airstrikes if Pakistan didn't get into line. Surely it would be unwise to destabilise a nuclear-armed country of 170m people, I said. \"Well,\" he shot back grimly. \"Maybe they deserve it.\"Yet for all the stone-throwing, hard facts are elusive. Did the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) spy agency really shelter Bin Laden? Does it control the notorious Haqqani network? Did it play a role in the 2008 Mumbai attacks? If smoking guns abound, the Pakistanis are remarkably good at wiping their fingerprints from the trigger. Instead, we are left with a murky stew of allegations, coincidences and the steamy whispers of western spies.Perhaps the embodiment of this conundrum is Pervez Musharraf, the former military ruler once beloved of the west. In a recent interview the BBC's Stephen Sackur harangued him about Pakistani perfidy. What of the Taliban safe havens? Sackur demanded. Or the Quetta Shura? Or reports that the monocular Taliban leader, Mullah Omar, resides happily in Pakistani suburbia? Musharraf sat through the mauling, visibly bristling, then shot back. \"You say it is true. I say it is all nonsense,\" he said, wearing his trademark wounded-puppy face. \"This is a mirage. This is what people say. This is what you think.\" [My italics].But what should we think \u2013 conspiracy, cockup or thinly veiled chaos? Puzzling out the answers to that question has been central to my seven years reporting from Pakistan for the Guardian. Much of it was dominated by the banner dramas: bombs and political heaves, spy scandals and shootings. But there were also, I discovered, truths to be gleaned from the smaller things \u2013 such as the way people drive.Pakistanis swerve into heavy traffic without looking, don't stick to their lane or indicate, which makes it hard to predict where they are coming from or going to. Social graces are rare \u2013 horns honk, headlights are impatiently flashed \u2013 but social hierarchy is observed: hulking four-wheel drives (increasingly armour-plated) barge through the swarms of matchbox cars. Off to the side, the police are taking bribes.But pull off the road and everything changes. Pakistanis are welcoming, generous and voluble. They insist you stay for tea, or the night. They love to gab, often with glorious indiscretion \u2013 national politics and local tattle, cricket scandals, movie stars and conspiracy theories. This is fun, and good for the business of journalism.While Islam is technically the glue of society, you learn, the real bonds are forged around clans, tribes, personal contacts. To get anything done, the official route is often pointless \u2013 the key is sifarish, the reference of an influential friend. Journalists use sifarish a lot; occasionally they are called on to dispense it too.Late one night, shortly after the last election, I got a surprise phone call from a ruling party official. Previously chatty and relaxed, he spoke in a loud and oddly deliberate voice. \"Do you remember that place you mentioned last night \u2013 the 'Cat House'?\" he said. I remembered no such thing. \"Well, the police have turned up,\" he continued. \"And I was hoping you might have a word with them.\" Seconds later the line dropped; I didn't call back.Two days later the papers carried reports of a police raid on a speakeasy-cum-brothel in a smart part of Islamabad, called the Cathouse. They arrested Russian and Chinese women, dozens of bottles of liquor and a number of punters \u2013 including a newly elected ruling party MP and his entourage, including my friend. But they were released without charge, the reports noted, after a phone call from a \"higher-up\" in government.I thought that was the end of the matter until a police video of the raid surfaced on the internet some months later. It showed officers storming into the Cathouse, arguing with Russian women and at, at one point, a middle-aged man in a crowded corridor, shouting into his phone.\"Do you remember that place you mentioned last night?\" says my friend \"The Cathouse?\"Such laughs have been regrettably rare. When I arrived in 2004, Islamabad was a somnolent, reliably dull city. By night, the sons of the rich drag-raced their daddies' cars along deserted streets, swerving to avoid wild boar ambling from the bushes. Foreigners mocked the capital for its provincial feel. \"Islamabad \u2013 half the size of a New York graveyard but twice as dead\" went the diplomats' tired gag as white-gloved waiters served gin and tonic on manicured lawns.Then the Taliban came to town. It started with the bloody siege of the Red mosque complex in July 2007, just before Pakistan's 60th birthday. Bullets zipped through the leafy streets; I dusted off my flak jacket. Then came the bombs: at markets, checkposts, the Naval headquarters, UN offices, the five-star Marriott hotel. Up the street from my house, Benazir Bhutto gave speeches from behind barbed wire, during a brief-lived house arrest. Weeks later she drove out to Rawalpindi, where she was assassinated.Today the blasts have stopped, mostly, but the city is cloistered in concrete. Fortified walls rise over the streets, vehicles slalom through elaborate checkposts, hotel entrances resemble prisons with gold-buttoned guards. Embassies are retreating into a sandbagged, Green Zone-style enclave; the presidency and even ISI headquarters are similarly isolated.That, however, is just the cosseted capital \u2013 the real pain has been felt elsewhere. Pakistan has paid a high blood price for what my guardian colleague Jason Burke calls the \"9/11 wars\". Since 2001, up to 5,000 Pakistanis have died in more that 300 suicide attacks; the victims range from toddlers to three-star generals. Another 13,000 have been wounded. This is partly the legacy from the military's decades-old dabbling in Islamist extremism, but for most Pakistanis the culprit is America.Television shows fizz with anti-American anger; many say the \"Ally from Hell\" epithet applies to the US, not them. Things have never been worse: outrage at the killing of 24 Pakistani soldiers in a murky border incident triggered a blockade on Nato supplies, the closure of a CIA drone base and the boycott of a conference on the future of Afghanistan \u2013 and that's just in the last week.Washington, meanwhile, is moving to restrict $700m (\u00a3450m) in aid. The relationship is beset by frustrations and misunderstandings on both sides, but the net effect is that Pakistanis are more profoundly isolated from the outside world than they have been in decades. This cannot be good.Many Pakistanis \u2013 educated, ambitious, modern \u2013 resent being lumped in with the terrorists. \"Why don't you write about the other Pakistan?\" is a frequent refrain \u2013 \"other\" being the country of software companies, pizza dinners, effervescent art shows and quality literature. When I could, I did, with a tendency towards the counter-intuitive: the booming brewery across the street from military headquarters; the transvestite civil rights movement, the punk rock bands and oxygen bars and rambunctious polo tournaments in the heights of the Hindu Kush. But perhaps the most memorable experiences were rooted in the rich cultural and religious heritage. One of my best trips was in Sehwan Sharif in Sindh, a glorious Sufi festival on the banks of the Indus with a mesmeric mix of party and prayer \u2013 a spectacle to make the head spin and the heart sing.Still, there's no getting around it: Pakistan is beset with problems that no amount of jolly beer stories or whirling dervishes can remedy. It is, as a psychologist might say, a country with serious issues. Most are decades old \u2013 the overweening army, the confused place of Islam, the covert support for jihad, deep-rooted corruption, the poisoned bond with America. Resolving them has never been so urgent.One reason is Afghanistan. As western troops draw down by 2014, Pakistan can help construct a stable future for the war-ravaged country \u2013 or spoil a deal it dislikes. But beyond that, it is the internal stability of Pakistan that is more worrying. The country is riven by ethnic, tribal and political faultlines, which, in turn, are being exacerbated by galloping population growth and deepening poverty. Turmoil in a country with at least 120 nuclear warheads and a projected population of 300m people by 2030 could make Afghanistan look like a walk in the park. Talk of a \"nuclear Somalia\" is overstated, but you get the point.Yet there is little sign of revolution. As the Arab spring swept the Middle East, Pakistan was quiet because, in a sense, it already has what others are demanding: elections. The problem is that few like the results. Asif Ali Zardari, the accidental president, suffers a crippling legitimacy deficit driven by perceptions of corruption and a more fundamental struggle for supremacy. Just a few years ago the army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, mused to the US ambassador about the possibility of a coup. Last week, Zardari suddenly flew to Dubai, triggering fresh speculation that such an upset was about to happen. The hype seems unfounded, and Zardari says he will soon return. But few doubt Kayani is the real power.Will ordinary Pakistanis tire of this power game? While there is no sign of a spring tide, millions of tiny waves are lapping the shores of despair. In October, Raja Khan, an unemployed man from Sindh province, travelled hundreds of miles to Islamabad. Standing outside parliament he doused himself in kerosene then struck a match. Hours later, racked with pain, the 23-year-old died. Poverty had ground him down, Khan said in a farewell note. As his coffin was nailed shut, his wife gave birth to their third son. His elderly father cried out: \"Oh, Zardari, where are you?\"It's not just Pakistan \u2013 over the seven years foreign correspondence changed drastically, too. In 2004, the Guardian focused on UK readers; today, through the internet, our audience is at once global and intensely local. Pakistanis leap on every story, scrutinising and commenting, particularly on Twitter, a medium many have embraced with gusto. It helps to project less obvious stories, such as a feature on the appalling wave of alleged state-sponsored killings in Balochistan earlier this year. But the intriguing feedback I received came in the form of an old-fashioned letter. Charles Burman was 92 years old, a former British army signals sergeant who had fought a long forgotten colonial campaign in the tribal belt in the 1930s and 40s. In wobbly handwriting he sent a fascinating account of his experiences; Waziristan was pretty dangerous back then, too, it turns out.Not everyone liked the coverage. Fatima Bhutto, niece of the assassinated Benazir, once suggested I was \"on the PPP payroll\", referring to the government party; pro-government blogs suggested I was peddling the ISI line; the ISI monitored my phone calls and occasionally rang to voice its own displeasure. The US military in Afghanistan blacklisted me briefly; the Taliban called with a ransom demand for a kidnapped hostage; Pervez Musharraf threatened to sue. That was all fine \u2013 multi-directional criticism is a compliment \u2013 but sometimes the story came a little too close.In 2008 a Guardian fixer was abducted and tortured while investigating a story on intelligence agency abduction and torture. Last year, for a few nail-biting hours, a close friend's father was caught up in a brutal gun-attack on a mosque belonging to the minority Ahmadi community in Lahore. He survived but more than 100 others died. The bombings took a toll. A few minutes after the 2008 suicide bombing of the Marriott, a hotel where I got my hair cut and had coffee with contacts, I found myself standing in the rubble, dazed by the enormity of the atrocity. A giant crater occupied the park, staff in bloodstained uniforms stumbled through the lobby, hunting for survivors, orange flames licked the ash-laden sky. Blood squelched underfoot.Retreating outside I found a preppy looking young man sitting on the verge, staring numbly into the inferno. His name was Ehsan Peerzada and he was 19 years old, articulate and educated, the son of a senior civil servant. In other circumstances, I might have interviewed him for a story on savvy, westernised Pakistanis. Now he railed in a stream of invective against everyone \u2013 Islamist extremists, Americans, drone strikes \u2013 struggling to make sense of it all. \"It's not fair,\" he mumbled. \"It's not fair.\"It's not all darkness; away from the bang-bang, life in Pakistan can be richly rewarding. I've been humbled by inspiring figures, traversed jaw-dropping landscapes and attended some wild parties, on one occasion with a roomful of transvestites. Where else can you find yourself with a bearded, joint-rolling characters, as I once did in Peshawar, nicknamed \"Mullah Omar\"? Even the news can be fun. Some years ago the cricket board issued a press release detailing \"genital warts\" of its errant star, Shoaib Akhtar. These days, bomb stories vie for space with Veena Malik, a daring actress who appeared topless wearing nothing but a tattoo that read \"ISI\". Malik has denounced the pictures, claiming \u2013 but of course \u2013 that they are the product of conspiracy.I hoped that my reporting portrayed the rich complexity of a society that, below the surface, defies its stereotypes. But on some occasions there was just nothing to be said. A few months ago I visited a house in Rawalpindi with a giant poster over the windows, depicting a heroic warrior on a gallant white steed. The warrior was Mumtaz Qadri, the police bodyguard who gunned down the Punjab governor Salmaan Taseer, last January, and this was his house.Outside, young children shouted slogans for Qadri, a curly-bearded extremist who killed Taseer because he championed the case of a poor Christian woman who had been prosecuted under the country's notorious blasphemy laws. Others joined them, protesting against Qadri's prosecution for murder. The air was thick with talk of persecution. \"Qadri is a great martyr,\" said one man. \"What he did is permitted by Islam.\" Then the crowd poured through the streets and on to the highway leading to Islamabad. The police closed the road and watched.The celebration of Qadri, a deluded fanatic, was deeply depressing. So was the fact that nobody dared raise their voice against his supporters, not even the government. Instead, the judge who sentenced Qadri has fled Pakistan. Aasia Bibi, the Christian at the heart of the furore, remains in jail. And Taseer's son, Shahbaz, has been kidnapped \u2013 probably by Qadri sympathisers. An ugly spectacle, it betrays questions about something deeply unhealthy at the core of Pakistani society.Still, many Pakistanis have similar doubts. There is a striking amount of national introspection in a hearteningly vibrant press. But which way out of the quagmire? Imran Khan, the cricket star turned political sensation, says he has answers. He exudes the confidence of a man who believes his time has come.But his ideas are controversial and, critics say, naive. His stance against \"politics\" echoes that of Musharraf a decade ago \u2013 a perception he will have to work hard to dispel.People often ask the most basic question about Pakistan: will it survive? The question has been going round for decades; the naysayers inevitably silenced. Is the current situation any more precarious? The country has deep stores of resilience, but is more vulnerable to external shocks than ever before. One thing, however, is clear: inshallah may have worked until now, but it is no longer enough.Declan Walsh's book Insh'Allah Nation is out next year. twitter.com/declanwalsh", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Asif Ali Zardari"], "title": "Pakistan: bombs, spies and wild parties"},{"date": "2011-11-30T00:46:43Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The BBC's World News has been taken off the air in Pakistan after broadcasting a documentary that was deemed to be critical of the country. Secret Pakistan, which was screened\u00a0last Wednesday, explored accusations by CIA officials and western diplomats that Pakistan was failing to meet its commitments in the \"war on terror\". Khalid Arain, president of the country's cable TV association, said operators had blocked the BBC service as a result.The BBC condemned the decision, which is understood to have been applied to other foreign news broadcasters airing \"anti-Pakistan\" content as well.\"We are deeply concerned that BBC World News has been taken off air by the Cable Association of Pakistan,\" said a BBC spokesman.\"We condemn any action that threatens our editorial independence and prevents audiences from accessing our impartial international news service. We would urge that BBC World News and other international news services are reinstated as soon as possible.\"The service was suspended in parts of Pakistan today, with the broadcaster expected to be off-air across the whole country by tomorrow.The blocking of the BBC comes amid high tensions following Nato air strikes that accidentally killed 24 Pakistani soldiers on Saturday.", "tags": ["BBC", "BBC World Service", "Media", "UK news", "Pakistan", "World news", "Television industry", "BBC Worldwide"], "title": "BBC World News blocked in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-11-27T21:57:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "How bad can a relationship between two military allies get? If this year's tally of incidents is anything to go by, Pakistan's rage against the American military machine can get a lot worse. First came the affair over Raymond Davis, the CIA agent who shot dead two men who had pulled up in front of his car at a traffic light in Lahore. Then came the US raid that killed Osama bin Laden in the Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad. And now this.An Afghan special forces operation, backed up by Nato troops, allegedly came under fire from across the border. Afghan troops, another report goes, called in Nato airstrikes, and two Pakistani military posts were hit, killing 24 soldiers. The reaction in Pakistan ranged yesterday from cold fury (it is just not believed in Pakistani military circles that Nato was unaware of the co-ordinates of the two military posts in the village of Salala) to hot conspiracy: America was the \"big evil\". The politician Imran Khan told thousands of supporters on Saturday that it was time to end the alliance with the US. It would be folly to dismiss this as mere populism. After a year like this, the Pakistani military will have to cope with rising levels of pressure from within its own ranks to end co-operation with the US.The Afghan element to this tale of friendly fire is also troubling. If, as US forces start to draw down, Afghan troops take the lead in highly sensitive areas like these, where the exact line of the border is unclear, then this weekend's woeful events may not be the last. As it is, it would not take much for Pakistani and Afghan troops to open fire on each other. On the Afghan side of the border in Kunar province, there was little doubt that the US military had done the right thing. They were congratulated for hitting the right target. On Saturday the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, approved a second list of areas where Afghan forces will start taking the lead from Nato troops. As it is, the US is reluctant to give the Afghans fast jets or heavy artillery for fear of what they would do.The short-term response is not as troubling as the long-term implications. Pakistan closed two border crossings and gave the US 15 days to quit Shamsi airbase in Baluchistan, from which it flew drones targeting militants in the tribal areas. The closures will make Barack Obama more dependent on Vladimir Putin's goodwill, and the northern supply route through which 60% of troops and military cargo to Afghanistan now travel. But, of itself, the closures will be a temporary problem. Of greater significance is the erosion of Pakistani public support for the US fight against the Taliban. It would not be the first strategic mistake the US had made in this war, but it could yet prove the costliest.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nato", "US military", "US news", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "US and Pakistan: deadliest of friends | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-11-27T20:35:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Readers of Dawn newspaper, commenting online, were in no doubt how the Pakistani government should respond to Saturday's killing by US forces of 24 soldiers on Pakistan's side of the Afghan border. \"Pakistan should acquire anti-aircraft defence systems ... so that in the future Pakistan can give Nato forces a proper reply,\" said Ali. \"This is outrageous,\" wrote another reader, Zia Khan. \"We should cut off all ties with the US. As long as we are getting US [anti-terror] aid ... Pakistan will be attacked in such a manner. They can never be trusted.\" Another, Obaid, turned his wrath on the Pakistani authorities: \"Our self-centred establishment with their fickle loyalties can't even demand that the killers be tried in a neutral court ... What is the ability of our armed forces? If they can't repel or intercept an attack of this intensity, then what's their purpose? This is not a time to get mad. It's time to get even.\"The fury of these respondents comes as no surprise, but Washington should treat it with deadly seriousness all the same, for this latest outrage is another fateful signpost on the road to a potential security and geostrategic disaster that may ultimately make Afghanistan look like a sideshow.The 10-year-old Afghan war, neither wholly won nor lost, is slowly drawing to a close \u2013 or so Washington postulates. But what has not stopped is the linked, escalating destabilisation of the infinitely more important, more populous, and nuclear-armed Pakistan. If Washington does not quickly learn to tread more carefully, it may find the first US-Pakistan war is beginning just as the fourth Afghan war supposedly ends.Anti-American feeling in Pakistan is becoming institutionalised at the higher levels of government, while opposition figures such as Imran Khan see their popularity rise on the back of diatribes aimed at Washington. Pakistan's western-educated, secular political elite is under brutal attack from Islamist militants who revile them as Washington's stooges. The knock-kneed government is mocked and despised for failing to stand up to its infidel paymasters even as Pakistan's own \"war on terror\" death toll rises into the tens of thousands.Since 2001, when the Bush administration bluntly told Islamabad it must take sides, be either \"for us or agin us\" in the newly declared \"war on terror\", Pakistan has struggled under a plethora of imperious American demands, d\u00e9marches and impositions that are at once politically indefensible and contrary to the perceived national interest.The last year has been another humiliating one at the hands of the country's principal ally. Pakistanis have looked on impotently as US special forces flouted its sovereignty and killed Osama bin Laden under the army's nose; as the US stepped up drone terror attacks in Pakistani territory despite repeated protests; and as people-pleasing US senators and Republican presidential candidates have taken to picking on Pakistan and its aid bill in uninformed foreign policy rants.Hillary Clinton and the Pentagon top brass have responded to Saturday's killing with the usual expressions of regret and of determination to \"investigate\", without formally admitting responsibility. Their pronouncements are worthless, transparently so.The belief that weak, impoverished, divided Pakistan has no alternative but to slavishly obey its master's voice could turn out to be one of the seminal strategic miscalculations of the 21st century. Alternative alliances with China or Russia aside, Muslim Pakistan, if bullied and scorned for long enough by its western mentors, could yet morph through external trauma and internal collapse into quite a different animal. The future paradigm here is not another well-trained Indonesia or Malaysia. It is the Islamic Republic of Iran.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "US military"], "title": "Pakistan has had enough | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2011-11-27T12:32:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is considering boycotting an international conference on the future of Afghanistan in retaliation for the deaths of 24 Pakistani soldiers who came under attack from Nato helicopters at a border checkpost.The Pakistani military alleged that the attack 1.5 miles inside Pakistani territory in the early hours of Saturday was deliberate, as it was a well-known position manned by regular troops. US officials have suggested the Nato force was acting in self-defence.Funerals were held for the dead soldiers in Peshawar on Sunday. Prayers conducted in front of 24 coffins, each wrapped in a Pakistani flag, were televised live. The army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, attended the service at a military base, as did leading officials from the north-west provincial administration.Television channels repeatedly replayed images of the funeral, set to patriotic music usually reserved for wartime. Kayani, considered the most powerful man in the country, visited a hospital in Peshawar to meet soldiers injured in the incident.The conference in Bonn, scheduled for 5 December, will mark a decade since the German city hosted the first international meeting to chalk out Afghanistan's future. It had once been hoped that the meeting might kick off the peace process in Afghanistan, but expectations had already been lowered even before this weekend.If a key regional player such as Pakistan stays away, the event will appear even more hollow. Pakistan's co-operation is considered vital for stabilising Afghanistan and bringing the Taliban into negotiations.Tehmina Janjua, of Pakistan's ministry of foreign affairs, said the Bonn issue was \"being examined and no decision has yet been taken in this regard\".Pakistan announced late on Saturday that it had blocked supplies to Nato forces passing through the country. Half of Nato supplies pass by land through Pakistan. Islamabad also said it would stop USuse of the Shamsi airbase, in the west of the country. Shamsi had been used in the past to fly drone aircraft, which target suspected militants in Pakistan's tribal area; it is unclear whether the base was still used for armed drones.Nato pledged a full investigation into the attack. \"I have written to the prime minister of Pakistan to make it clear that the deaths of Pakistani personnel are as unacceptable and deplorable as the deaths of Afghan and international personnel,\" said Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Nato's secretary general. \"This was a tragic unintended incident.\"Events leading up to the incident remain unclear. In the past, much confusion has been caused by Taliban insurgents firing into Afghanistan from positions close to Pakistani checkposts, making it appear to Nato and Afghan troops that they are coming under attack from the Pakistani posts. Pakistani soldiers have previously shot into the air to warn Nato helicopters that they have crossed the border, but that has been mistaken by the aircraft crew for incoming fire.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nato", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan may boycott Afghan summit"},{"date": "2011-12-15T21:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Even before you reach Pakistan there's reason to fret. \"Ladies and gentlemen, we will be landing shortly, inshallah,\" says the Pakistan International Airlines pilot, 10 minutes outside Islamabad. To the western ear this ancient invocation \u2013 literally \"God willing\" \u2013 can be disconcerting: you pray the crew are relying on more than divine providence to set down safety. But these days it's about right \u2013 Pakistan, a country buffeted by mysterious if not entirely holy forces, seems to have surrendered to its fate.Viewed from the outside, Pakistan looms as the Fukushima of fundamentalism: a volatile, treacherous place filled with frothing Islamists and double-dealing generals, leaking plutonium-grade terrorist trouble. Forget the \"world's most dangerous country\" moniker, by now old hat. Look to recent coverage: \"Hornet's Nest\" declares this week's Economist; \"The Ally from Hell\" proclaims the Atlantic.Western condemnation has a moral quality, the tinge of wounded betrayal. Much of it is rooted in Afghanistan, where many blame Pakistan for the Taliban resurgence. Some years ago a senior UN official in Kabul warned me the US could launch unilateral airstrikes if Pakistan didn't get into line. Surely it would be unwise to destabilise a nuclear-armed country of 170m people, I said. \"Well,\" he shot back grimly. \"Maybe they deserve it.\"Yet for all the stone-throwing, hard facts are elusive. Did the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) spy agency really shelter Bin Laden? Does it control the notorious Haqqani network? Did it play a role in the 2008 Mumbai attacks? If smoking guns abound, the Pakistanis are remarkably good at wiping their fingerprints from the trigger. Instead, we are left with a murky stew of allegations, coincidences and the steamy whispers of western spies.Perhaps the embodiment of this conundrum is Pervez Musharraf, the former military ruler once beloved of the west. In a recent interview the BBC's Stephen Sackur harangued him about Pakistani perfidy. What of the Taliban safe havens? Sackur demanded. Or the Quetta Shura? Or reports that the monocular Taliban leader, Mullah Omar, resides happily in Pakistani suburbia? Musharraf sat through the mauling, visibly bristling, then shot back. \"You say it is true. I say it is all nonsense,\" he said, wearing his trademark wounded-puppy face. \"This is a mirage. This is what people say. This is what you think.\" [My italics].But what should we think \u2013 conspiracy, cockup or thinly veiled chaos? Puzzling out the answers to that question has been central to my seven years reporting from Pakistan for the Guardian. Much of it was dominated by the banner dramas: bombs and political heaves, spy scandals and shootings. But there were also, I discovered, truths to be gleaned from the smaller things \u2013 such as the way people drive.Pakistanis swerve into heavy traffic without looking, don't stick to their lane or indicate, which makes it hard to predict where they are coming from or going to. Social graces are rare \u2013 horns honk, headlights are impatiently flashed \u2013 but social hierarchy is observed: hulking four-wheel drives (increasingly armour-plated) barge through the swarms of matchbox cars. Off to the side, the police are taking bribes.But pull off the road and everything changes. Pakistanis are welcoming, generous and voluble. They insist you stay for tea, or the night. They love to gab, often with glorious indiscretion \u2013 national politics and local tattle, cricket scandals, movie stars and conspiracy theories. This is fun, and good for the business of journalism.While Islam is technically the glue of society, you learn, the real bonds are forged around clans, tribes, personal contacts. To get anything done, the official route is often pointless \u2013 the key is sifarish, the reference of an influential friend. Journalists use sifarish a lot; occasionally they are called on to dispense it too.Late one night, shortly after the last election, I got a surprise phone call from a ruling party official. Previously chatty and relaxed, he spoke in a loud and oddly deliberate voice. \"Do you remember that place you mentioned last night \u2013 the 'Cat House'?\" he said. I remembered no such thing. \"Well, the police have turned up,\" he continued. \"And I was hoping you might have a word with them.\" Seconds later the line dropped; I didn't call back.Two days later the papers carried reports of a police raid on a speakeasy-cum-brothel in a smart part of Islamabad, called the Cathouse. They arrested Russian and Chinese women, dozens of bottles of liquor and a number of punters \u2013 including a newly elected ruling party MP and his entourage, including my friend. But they were released without charge, the reports noted, after a phone call from a \"higher-up\" in government.I thought that was the end of the matter until a police video of the raid surfaced on the internet some months later. It showed officers storming into the Cathouse, arguing with Russian women and at, at one point, a middle-aged man in a crowded corridor, shouting into his phone.\"Do you remember that place you mentioned last night?\" says my friend \"The Cathouse?\"Such laughs have been regrettably rare. When I arrived in 2004, Islamabad was a somnolent, reliably dull city. By night, the sons of the rich drag-raced their daddies' cars along deserted streets, swerving to avoid wild boar ambling from the bushes. Foreigners mocked the capital for its provincial feel. \"Islamabad \u2013 half the size of a New York graveyard but twice as dead\" went the diplomats' tired gag as white-gloved waiters served gin and tonic on manicured lawns.Then the Taliban came to town. It started with the bloody siege of the Red mosque complex in July 2007, just before Pakistan's 60th birthday. Bullets zipped through the leafy streets; I dusted off my flak jacket. Then came the bombs: at markets, checkposts, the Naval headquarters, UN offices, the five-star Marriott hotel. Up the street from my house, Benazir Bhutto gave speeches from behind barbed wire, during a brief-lived house arrest. Weeks later she drove out to Rawalpindi, where she was assassinated.Today the blasts have stopped, mostly, but the city is cloistered in concrete. Fortified walls rise over the streets, vehicles slalom through elaborate checkposts, hotel entrances resemble prisons with gold-buttoned guards. Embassies are retreating into a sandbagged, Green Zone-style enclave; the presidency and even ISI headquarters are similarly isolated.That, however, is just the cosseted capital \u2013 the real pain has been felt elsewhere. Pakistan has paid a high blood price for what my guardian colleague Jason Burke calls the \"9/11 wars\". Since 2001, up to 5,000 Pakistanis have died in more that 300 suicide attacks; the victims range from toddlers to three-star generals. Another 13,000 have been wounded. This is partly the legacy from the military's decades-old dabbling in Islamist extremism, but for most Pakistanis the culprit is America.Television shows fizz with anti-American anger; many say the \"Ally from Hell\" epithet applies to the US, not them. Things have never been worse: outrage at the killing of 24 Pakistani soldiers in a murky border incident triggered a blockade on Nato supplies, the closure of a CIA drone base and the boycott of a conference on the future of Afghanistan \u2013 and that's just in the last week.Washington, meanwhile, is moving to restrict $700m (\u00a3450m) in aid. The relationship is beset by frustrations and misunderstandings on both sides, but the net effect is that Pakistanis are more profoundly isolated from the outside world than they have been in decades. This cannot be good.Many Pakistanis \u2013 educated, ambitious, modern \u2013 resent being lumped in with the terrorists. \"Why don't you write about the other Pakistan?\" is a frequent refrain \u2013 \"other\" being the country of software companies, pizza dinners, effervescent art shows and quality literature. When I could, I did, with a tendency towards the counter-intuitive: the booming brewery across the street from military headquarters; the transvestite civil rights movement, the punk rock bands and oxygen bars and rambunctious polo tournaments in the heights of the Hindu Kush. But perhaps the most memorable experiences were rooted in the rich cultural and religious heritage. One of my best trips was in Sehwan Sharif in Sindh, a glorious Sufi festival on the banks of the Indus with a mesmeric mix of party and prayer \u2013 a spectacle to make the head spin and the heart sing.Still, there's no getting around it: Pakistan is beset with problems that no amount of jolly beer stories or whirling dervishes can remedy. It is, as a psychologist might say, a country with serious issues. Most are decades old \u2013 the overweening army, the confused place of Islam, the covert support for jihad, deep-rooted corruption, the poisoned bond with America. Resolving them has never been so urgent.One reason is Afghanistan. As western troops draw down by 2014, Pakistan can help construct a stable future for the war-ravaged country \u2013 or spoil a deal it dislikes. But beyond that, it is the internal stability of Pakistan that is more worrying. The country is riven by ethnic, tribal and political faultlines, which, in turn, are being exacerbated by galloping population growth and deepening poverty. Turmoil in a country with at least 120 nuclear warheads and a projected population of 300m people by 2030 could make Afghanistan look like a walk in the park. Talk of a \"nuclear Somalia\" is overstated, but you get the point.Yet there is little sign of revolution. As the Arab spring swept the Middle East, Pakistan was quiet because, in a sense, it already has what others are demanding: elections. The problem is that few like the results. Asif Ali Zardari, the accidental president, suffers a crippling legitimacy deficit driven by perceptions of corruption and a more fundamental struggle for supremacy. Just a few years ago the army chief, General Ashfaq Kayani, mused to the US ambassador about the possibility of a coup. Last week, Zardari suddenly flew to Dubai, triggering fresh speculation that such an upset was about to happen. The hype seems unfounded, and Zardari says he will soon return. But few doubt Kayani is the real power.Will ordinary Pakistanis tire of this power game? While there is no sign of a spring tide, millions of tiny waves are lapping the shores of despair. In October, Raja Khan, an unemployed man from Sindh province, travelled hundreds of miles to Islamabad. Standing outside parliament he doused himself in kerosene then struck a match. Hours later, racked with pain, the 23-year-old died. Poverty had ground him down, Khan said in a farewell note. As his coffin was nailed shut, his wife gave birth to their third son. His elderly father cried out: \"Oh, Zardari, where are you?\"It's not just Pakistan \u2013 over the seven years foreign correspondence changed drastically, too. In 2004, the Guardian focused on UK readers; today, through the internet, our audience is at once global and intensely local. Pakistanis leap on every story, scrutinising and commenting, particularly on Twitter, a medium many have embraced with gusto. It helps to project less obvious stories, such as a feature on the appalling wave of alleged state-sponsored killings in Balochistan earlier this year. But the intriguing feedback I received came in the form of an old-fashioned letter. Charles Burman was 92 years old, a former British army signals sergeant who had fought a long forgotten colonial campaign in the tribal belt in the 1930s and 40s. In wobbly handwriting he sent a fascinating account of his experiences; Waziristan was pretty dangerous back then, too, it turns out.Not everyone liked the coverage. Fatima Bhutto, niece of the assassinated Benazir, once suggested I was \"on the PPP payroll\", referring to the government party; pro-government blogs suggested I was peddling the ISI line; the ISI monitored my phone calls and occasionally rang to voice its own displeasure. The US military in Afghanistan blacklisted me briefly; the Taliban called with a ransom demand for a kidnapped hostage; Pervez Musharraf threatened to sue. That was all fine \u2013 multi-directional criticism is a compliment \u2013 but sometimes the story came a little too close.In 2008 a Guardian fixer was abducted and tortured while investigating a story on intelligence agency abduction and torture. Last year, for a few nail-biting hours, a close friend's father was caught up in a brutal gun-attack on a mosque belonging to the minority Ahmadi community in Lahore. He survived but more than 100 others died. The bombings took a toll. A few minutes after the 2008 suicide bombing of the Marriott, a hotel where I got my hair cut and had coffee with contacts, I found myself standing in the rubble, dazed by the enormity of the atrocity. A giant crater occupied the park, staff in bloodstained uniforms stumbled through the lobby, hunting for survivors, orange flames licked the ash-laden sky. Blood squelched underfoot.Retreating outside I found a preppy looking young man sitting on the verge, staring numbly into the inferno. His name was Ehsan Peerzada and he was 19 years old, articulate and educated, the son of a senior civil servant. In other circumstances, I might have interviewed him for a story on savvy, westernised Pakistanis. Now he railed in a stream of invective against everyone \u2013 Islamist extremists, Americans, drone strikes \u2013 struggling to make sense of it all. \"It's not fair,\" he mumbled. \"It's not fair.\"It's not all darkness; away from the bang-bang, life in Pakistan can be richly rewarding. I've been humbled by inspiring figures, traversed jaw-dropping landscapes and attended some wild parties, on one occasion with a roomful of transvestites. Where else can you find yourself with a bearded, joint-rolling characters, as I once did in Peshawar, nicknamed \"Mullah Omar\"? Even the news can be fun. Some years ago the cricket board issued a press release detailing \"genital warts\" of its errant star, Shoaib Akhtar. These days, bomb stories vie for space with Veena Malik, a daring actress who appeared topless wearing nothing but a tattoo that read \"ISI\". Malik has denounced the pictures, claiming \u2013 but of course \u2013 that they are the product of conspiracy.I hoped that my reporting portrayed the rich complexity of a society that, below the surface, defies its stereotypes. But on some occasions there was just nothing to be said. A few months ago I visited a house in Rawalpindi with a giant poster over the windows, depicting a heroic warrior on a gallant white steed. The warrior was Mumtaz Qadri, the police bodyguard who gunned down the Punjab governor Salmaan Taseer, last January, and this was his house.Outside, young children shouted slogans for Qadri, a curly-bearded extremist who killed Taseer because he championed the case of a poor Christian woman who had been prosecuted under the country's notorious blasphemy laws. Others joined them, protesting against Qadri's prosecution for murder. The air was thick with talk of persecution. \"Qadri is a great martyr,\" said one man. \"What he did is permitted by Islam.\" Then the crowd poured through the streets and on to the highway leading to Islamabad. The police closed the road and watched.The celebration of Qadri, a deluded fanatic, was deeply depressing. So was the fact that nobody dared raise their voice against his supporters, not even the government. Instead, the judge who sentenced Qadri has fled Pakistan. Aasia Bibi, the Christian at the heart of the furore, remains in jail. And Taseer's son, Shahbaz, has been kidnapped \u2013 probably by Qadri sympathisers. An ugly spectacle, it betrays questions about something deeply unhealthy at the core of Pakistani society.Still, many Pakistanis have similar doubts. There is a striking amount of national introspection in a hearteningly vibrant press. But which way out of the quagmire? Imran Khan, the cricket star turned political sensation, says he has answers. He exudes the confidence of a man who believes his time has come.But his ideas are controversial and, critics say, naive. His stance against \"politics\" echoes that of Musharraf a decade ago \u2013 a perception he will have to work hard to dispel.People often ask the most basic question about Pakistan: will it survive? The question has been going round for decades; the naysayers inevitably silenced. Is the current situation any more precarious? The country has deep stores of resilience, but is more vulnerable to external shocks than ever before. One thing, however, is clear: inshallah may have worked until now, but it is no longer enough.Declan Walsh's book Insh'Allah Nation is out next year. twitter.com/declanwalsh", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Asif Ali Zardari"], "title": "Pakistan: bombs, spies and wild parties"},{"date": "2011-11-30T00:46:43Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The BBC's World News has been taken off the air in Pakistan after broadcasting a documentary that was deemed to be critical of the country. Secret Pakistan, which was screened\u00a0last Wednesday, explored accusations by CIA officials and western diplomats that Pakistan was failing to meet its commitments in the \"war on terror\". Khalid Arain, president of the country's cable TV association, said operators had blocked the BBC service as a result.The BBC condemned the decision, which is understood to have been applied to other foreign news broadcasters airing \"anti-Pakistan\" content as well.\"We are deeply concerned that BBC World News has been taken off air by the Cable Association of Pakistan,\" said a BBC spokesman.\"We condemn any action that threatens our editorial independence and prevents audiences from accessing our impartial international news service. We would urge that BBC World News and other international news services are reinstated as soon as possible.\"The service was suspended in parts of Pakistan today, with the broadcaster expected to be off-air across the whole country by tomorrow.The blocking of the BBC comes amid high tensions following Nato air strikes that accidentally killed 24 Pakistani soldiers on Saturday.", "tags": ["BBC", "BBC World Service", "Media", "UK news", "Pakistan", "World news", "Television industry", "BBC Worldwide"], "title": "BBC World News blocked in Pakistan"},{"date": "2011-11-27T21:57:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "How bad can a relationship between two military allies get? If this year's tally of incidents is anything to go by, Pakistan's rage against the American military machine can get a lot worse. First came the affair over Raymond Davis, the CIA agent who shot dead two men who had pulled up in front of his car at a traffic light in Lahore. Then came the US raid that killed Osama bin Laden in the Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad. And now this.An Afghan special forces operation, backed up by Nato troops, allegedly came under fire from across the border. Afghan troops, another report goes, called in Nato airstrikes, and two Pakistani military posts were hit, killing 24 soldiers. The reaction in Pakistan ranged yesterday from cold fury (it is just not believed in Pakistani military circles that Nato was unaware of the co-ordinates of the two military posts in the village of Salala) to hot conspiracy: America was the \"big evil\". The politician Imran Khan told thousands of supporters on Saturday that it was time to end the alliance with the US. It would be folly to dismiss this as mere populism. After a year like this, the Pakistani military will have to cope with rising levels of pressure from within its own ranks to end co-operation with the US.The Afghan element to this tale of friendly fire is also troubling. If, as US forces start to draw down, Afghan troops take the lead in highly sensitive areas like these, where the exact line of the border is unclear, then this weekend's woeful events may not be the last. As it is, it would not take much for Pakistani and Afghan troops to open fire on each other. On the Afghan side of the border in Kunar province, there was little doubt that the US military had done the right thing. They were congratulated for hitting the right target. On Saturday the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, approved a second list of areas where Afghan forces will start taking the lead from Nato troops. As it is, the US is reluctant to give the Afghans fast jets or heavy artillery for fear of what they would do.The short-term response is not as troubling as the long-term implications. Pakistan closed two border crossings and gave the US 15 days to quit Shamsi airbase in Baluchistan, from which it flew drones targeting militants in the tribal areas. The closures will make Barack Obama more dependent on Vladimir Putin's goodwill, and the northern supply route through which 60% of troops and military cargo to Afghanistan now travel. But, of itself, the closures will be a temporary problem. Of greater significance is the erosion of Pakistani public support for the US fight against the Taliban. It would not be the first strategic mistake the US had made in this war, but it could yet prove the costliest.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Nato", "US military", "US news", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "US and Pakistan: deadliest of friends | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-11-23T11:47:22Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Sherry Rehman, who has received death threats after campaigning to reform Pakistan's blasphemy laws, has been appointed as the country's ambassador to Washington.The appointment was announced a day after her predecessor was ousted at the apparent behest of Pakistan's powerful military.Rehman, a human rights campaigner and former journalist who represents the ruling Pakistan People's party, will replace Husain Haqqani. Haqqani was accused of crafting an offer from the government to the US administration to rein in the Pakistani military and spy agencies in return for US support against a feared coup.Rehman's stance on national issues is much less likely to trouble Pakistan's military establishment, which had been angered when Haqqani wrote a book about links between Pakistan's army and jihadist groups.Cyril Almeida, a newspaper columnist, said Rehman's relationship with the military was \"perhaps not friendly\" but that there was \"no overt animosity either\".The military jealously guards its near monopoly over foreign and national security policies, making it deeply suspicious of the direct access Haqqani had to the top levels of the US government.Rehman lives under police protection after receiving death threats over an unsuccessful bill she introduced to parliament to reform the country's blasphemy laws. Earlier this year, two other politicians with the Pakistan People's party were shot dead by extremists over the same issue.For a year, she served as the information minister before quitting in 2009 over differences with the president, Asif Ali Zardari, about media restrictions.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Sherry Rehman appointed Pakistan ambassador to Washington"},{"date": "2012-02-12T21:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Zakia's face looks as if half of it has been rubbed out. What's left is one eye, half a\u00a0nose and a mouth that can no longer smile. She seldom leaves the house, and when she does she wears an all-encompassing black niqab and sunglasses.The young mother is just one of the 150 victims of acid attacks reported each year in Pakistan, according to the\u00a0charity Acid Survivors Foundation \u2013 although the true figure is likely to be much higher. It's a form of violence that has spread across the world from Uganda to Cambodia, and the victims are most often women and\u00a0children.In Pakistan, Zakia's case is only uncommon because instead of having to spend her life marked by the horrific attack, a British surgeon, Mohammad Jawad, is helping to rebuild her face. The treatment is followed in an Oscar-nominated documentary, Saving Face, Pakistan's first Academy Award nominationNow a pioneering surgeon in the field, just four years ago Jawad had never seen an acid attack injury, and certainly did not know they happened in Pakistan, the country in which he was born and trained as a doctor. Sitting in his prestigious cosmetic surgery clinic in central London, he tells me about his first case in 2008 at London's Chelsea and Westminster Hospital. Katie Piper, a 23-year-old model, had been disfigured by sulphuric acid thrown by a violent ex-boyfriend.Despite his years of training, Jawad admits that he was shocked, \"I had not seen anything like it before. I had seen bigger burns and on a younger patient, but never facial burns of this nature. Unless acid is neutralised it just keeps going deeper and deeper into your skin. All of the patients I had treated had been the victims of accidents \u2013 this was attempted murder.\" In a pioneering operation, Jawad used Matriderm \u2013 a synthetic skin substitute \u2013 to re-form her face. It had such impressive results that Piper referred to the surgeon as her \"hero\".After hearing about his results another doctor told him that attacks were rife in Pakistan. Jawad had already made frequent trips there to\u00a0carry out surgery on children with cleft palates, and burns victims who could not otherwise afford treatment. But he did not realise that the availability of acid for use in the cotton industry had led to assaults often linked to domestic violence or revenge attacks by rejected men. He began travelling to Pakistan every three months and holding free clinics (funded by charities including Islamic Help) to perform life-changing surgery. \"With these women it was three or four years after they had been attacked,\" he says. \"From the social justice point of view it was diabolical \u2013 [in some cases] the guys who did it might be caught, but bribe their way out of it. All I could do is use my skills to patch people up and give them a better face.\"On Zakia, Jawad was able to use the techniques he had learned through operating on Piper to carry out the first surgery of its kind in Pakistan. He used Matriderm to smooth her ravaged face, gave her a pair of glasses with a painted eye and attached a prosthetic nose, allowing her finally to show her face in\u00a0public.The documentary follows Zakia's attempt to bring the husband who attacked her to justice \u2013 and the successful fight by the Acid Survivors Foundation to introduce a law to ensure a minimum prison sentence of 14 years for perpetrators of acid attacks.Back in the UK, Jawad says he hopes the documentary will highlight the positive work plastic surgeons do every day in the NHS, and all over the world for patients with congenital, or developmental deformities, trauma injuries or cancer. \"I want to restore the glory of plastic surgeons. Boob jobs have overshadowed our work restoring patients \u2013 their limbs, or breasts from cancer for instance.\"The PIP scandal, which has left thousands of women with implants made of industrial-grade silicone \u2013 believed to be more likely to rupture and cause toxic contamination \u2013 has, he admits, not helped. Although he never used these implants in his own private clinic, Jawad says he was given them to use in his previous work for the Transform Cosmetic Surgery Group.His work in Pakistan, he says, is a \"moral obligation\" for doctors like himself who received training in the country almost for free, and then left with their skills to join the NHS. He hopes that other doctors will be similarly inspired by the film. \"I wanted to show I\u00a0was having a great time \u2013 training local people and enjoying the work, owning up to my responsibilities and encouraging others to do the same.\" Then he laughs, \"And if I get an Oscar out of it, am I going to say no?\"Saving Face will air on Channel 4 in early April. Dr Jawad blogs at www.mohammadjawad.com", "tags": ["Health & wellbeing", "Life and style", "Documentary", "Oscars 2012", "Film"], "title": "Saving faces in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-02-12T21:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Zakia's face looks as if half of it has been rubbed out. What's left is one eye, half a\u00a0nose and a mouth that can no longer smile. She seldom leaves the house, and when she does she wears an all-encompassing black niqab and sunglasses.The young mother is just one of the 150 victims of acid attacks reported each year in Pakistan, according to the\u00a0charity Acid Survivors Foundation \u2013 although the true figure is likely to be much higher. It's a form of violence that has spread across the world from Uganda to Cambodia, and the victims are most often women and\u00a0children.In Pakistan, Zakia's case is only uncommon because instead of having to spend her life marked by the horrific attack, a British surgeon, Mohammad Jawad, is helping to rebuild her face. The treatment is followed in an Oscar-nominated documentary, Saving Face, Pakistan's first Academy Award nominationNow a pioneering surgeon in the field, just four years ago Jawad had never seen an acid attack injury, and certainly did not know they happened in Pakistan, the country in which he was born and trained as a doctor. Sitting in his prestigious cosmetic surgery clinic in central London, he tells me about his first case in 2008 at London's Chelsea and Westminster Hospital. Katie Piper, a 23-year-old model, had been disfigured by sulphuric acid thrown by a violent ex-boyfriend.Despite his years of training, Jawad admits that he was shocked, \"I had not seen anything like it before. I had seen bigger burns and on a younger patient, but never facial burns of this nature. Unless acid is neutralised it just keeps going deeper and deeper into your skin. All of the patients I had treated had been the victims of accidents \u2013 this was attempted murder.\" In a pioneering operation, Jawad used Matriderm \u2013 a synthetic skin substitute \u2013 to re-form her face. It had such impressive results that Piper referred to the surgeon as her \"hero\".After hearing about his results another doctor told him that attacks were rife in Pakistan. Jawad had already made frequent trips there to\u00a0carry out surgery on children with cleft palates, and burns victims who could not otherwise afford treatment. But he did not realise that the availability of acid for use in the cotton industry had led to assaults often linked to domestic violence or revenge attacks by rejected men. He began travelling to Pakistan every three months and holding free clinics (funded by charities including Islamic Help) to perform life-changing surgery. \"With these women it was three or four years after they had been attacked,\" he says. \"From the social justice point of view it was diabolical \u2013 [in some cases] the guys who did it might be caught, but bribe their way out of it. All I could do is use my skills to patch people up and give them a better face.\"On Zakia, Jawad was able to use the techniques he had learned through operating on Piper to carry out the first surgery of its kind in Pakistan. He used Matriderm to smooth her ravaged face, gave her a pair of glasses with a painted eye and attached a prosthetic nose, allowing her finally to show her face in\u00a0public.The documentary follows Zakia's attempt to bring the husband who attacked her to justice \u2013 and the successful fight by the Acid Survivors Foundation to introduce a law to ensure a minimum prison sentence of 14 years for perpetrators of acid attacks.Back in the UK, Jawad says he hopes the documentary will highlight the positive work plastic surgeons do every day in the NHS, and all over the world for patients with congenital, or developmental deformities, trauma injuries or cancer. \"I want to restore the glory of plastic surgeons. Boob jobs have overshadowed our work restoring patients \u2013 their limbs, or breasts from cancer for instance.\"The PIP scandal, which has left thousands of women with implants made of industrial-grade silicone \u2013 believed to be more likely to rupture and cause toxic contamination \u2013 has, he admits, not helped. Although he never used these implants in his own private clinic, Jawad says he was given them to use in his previous work for the Transform Cosmetic Surgery Group.His work in Pakistan, he says, is a \"moral obligation\" for doctors like himself who received training in the country almost for free, and then left with their skills to join the NHS. He hopes that other doctors will be similarly inspired by the film. \"I wanted to show I\u00a0was having a great time \u2013 training local people and enjoying the work, owning up to my responsibilities and encouraging others to do the same.\" Then he laughs, \"And if I get an Oscar out of it, am I going to say no?\"Saving Face will air on Channel 4 in early April. Dr Jawad blogs at www.mohammadjawad.com", "tags": ["Health & wellbeing", "Life and style", "Documentary", "Oscars 2012", "Film"], "title": "Saving faces in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-02-16T22:15:27Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, confronted the Pakistani leadership on Thursday on a visit to Islamabad as his frustration with the country he accuses of harbouring the Taliban boiled over.Karzai's language and tone flared to such an extent that the Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, intervened and called a halt to a meeting of the full delegations of the two countries, according to officials on both sides. After a break, a smaller meeting of just the top officials was held, on the first day of a two-day visit to Islamabad.The Afghan president has long demanded that Pakistan bring the leadership of the Taliban to the negotiating table, including its chief, Mullah Mohammad Omar.The Afghan side's main meeting on Thursday was with the combined Pakistani civilian and military leadership, which went on for around three hours, with the Pakistani prime minister, foreign minister, army chief and head of the intelligence service all present.At one point, apparently directing his remarks to Pakistan's foreign minister, Hina Rabbani Khar, Karzai asked: \"Would you be willing to stop girls studying in schools and university in Pakistan?\" The Taliban, when it ruled Afghanistan in the 1990s, stopped the education of girls and banned women from working.According to one insider, Karzai also bluntly demanded that Pakistan produce the Taliban to negotiate with him during his visit to the country. The source said that the Pakistani side was shocked by the Afghan leader's aggression.The nascent peace process, which offers the only hope for an end to the decade-long Afghan conflict, depends crucially on Afghanistan and Pakistan being able to co-operate. Islamabad denies that the Taliban leadership and Mullah Omar is on its soil, but Kabul and the west believe that they have sanctuary there, giving Islamabad decisive leverage over any negotiations.Karzai is understood to deeply resent what he feels is his government's marginalisation in the peace dialogue, which he sees as being controlled by the US or Pakistan, despite both countries repeatedly saying they want an \"Afghan-led\" process.US-backed efforts in recent months to open an office for the Taliban in the Gulf state of Qatar, to kickstart talks, was an initiative that Kabul felt excluded from.Pakistan's relationship with Afghanistan is only just recovering from accusations last year that the ISI was behind the assassination of Kabul's peace envoy, Burhanuddin Rabbani.Ahead of the Karzai visit, the Afghan ambassador in Islamabad, Umer Daudzai, a key adviser to the president, told a Pakistani newspaper: \"President Hamid Karzai will expect Pakistan to facilitate contacts and dialogue with Taliban.\"Pakistan says that it will aid Kabul's peace efforts but has never spelt out what it is capable of delivering. Conversely, Pakistan says that it is unclear what Karzai is demanding of it.\"We told them (the Afghan side) that you need to clarify what it is that you want,\" said Khar, speaking to a small group of foreign press following the official meetings. \"We need to understand each other much better.\"\"We will not block any process that works towards reconciliation.\"Khar described the discussions with the Afghan delegation as \"hard\" and \"serious\" but declined to go into any details. \"We don't have Mullah Omar to bring,\" she said. \"That's the crazy perception about Pakistan. It's ridiculous.\"", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Hamid Karzai", "Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Hamid Karzai confronts Pakistan leadership"},{"date": "2012-02-12T21:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Zakia's face looks as if half of it has been rubbed out. What's left is one eye, half a\u00a0nose and a mouth that can no longer smile. She seldom leaves the house, and when she does she wears an all-encompassing black niqab and sunglasses.The young mother is just one of the 150 victims of acid attacks reported each year in Pakistan, according to the\u00a0charity Acid Survivors Foundation \u2013 although the true figure is likely to be much higher. It's a form of violence that has spread across the world from Uganda to Cambodia, and the victims are most often women and\u00a0children.In Pakistan, Zakia's case is only uncommon because instead of having to spend her life marked by the horrific attack, a British surgeon, Mohammad Jawad, is helping to rebuild her face. The treatment is followed in an Oscar-nominated documentary, Saving Face, Pakistan's first Academy Award nominationNow a pioneering surgeon in the field, just four years ago Jawad had never seen an acid attack injury, and certainly did not know they happened in Pakistan, the country in which he was born and trained as a doctor. Sitting in his prestigious cosmetic surgery clinic in central London, he tells me about his first case in 2008 at London's Chelsea and Westminster Hospital. Katie Piper, a 23-year-old model, had been disfigured by sulphuric acid thrown by a violent ex-boyfriend.Despite his years of training, Jawad admits that he was shocked, \"I had not seen anything like it before. I had seen bigger burns and on a younger patient, but never facial burns of this nature. Unless acid is neutralised it just keeps going deeper and deeper into your skin. All of the patients I had treated had been the victims of accidents \u2013 this was attempted murder.\" In a pioneering operation, Jawad used Matriderm \u2013 a synthetic skin substitute \u2013 to re-form her face. It had such impressive results that Piper referred to the surgeon as her \"hero\".After hearing about his results another doctor told him that attacks were rife in Pakistan. Jawad had already made frequent trips there to\u00a0carry out surgery on children with cleft palates, and burns victims who could not otherwise afford treatment. But he did not realise that the availability of acid for use in the cotton industry had led to assaults often linked to domestic violence or revenge attacks by rejected men. He began travelling to Pakistan every three months and holding free clinics (funded by charities including Islamic Help) to perform life-changing surgery. \"With these women it was three or four years after they had been attacked,\" he says. \"From the social justice point of view it was diabolical \u2013 [in some cases] the guys who did it might be caught, but bribe their way out of it. All I could do is use my skills to patch people up and give them a better face.\"On Zakia, Jawad was able to use the techniques he had learned through operating on Piper to carry out the first surgery of its kind in Pakistan. He used Matriderm to smooth her ravaged face, gave her a pair of glasses with a painted eye and attached a prosthetic nose, allowing her finally to show her face in\u00a0public.The documentary follows Zakia's attempt to bring the husband who attacked her to justice \u2013 and the successful fight by the Acid Survivors Foundation to introduce a law to ensure a minimum prison sentence of 14 years for perpetrators of acid attacks.Back in the UK, Jawad says he hopes the documentary will highlight the positive work plastic surgeons do every day in the NHS, and all over the world for patients with congenital, or developmental deformities, trauma injuries or cancer. \"I want to restore the glory of plastic surgeons. Boob jobs have overshadowed our work restoring patients \u2013 their limbs, or breasts from cancer for instance.\"The PIP scandal, which has left thousands of women with implants made of industrial-grade silicone \u2013 believed to be more likely to rupture and cause toxic contamination \u2013 has, he admits, not helped. Although he never used these implants in his own private clinic, Jawad says he was given them to use in his previous work for the Transform Cosmetic Surgery Group.His work in Pakistan, he says, is a \"moral obligation\" for doctors like himself who received training in the country almost for free, and then left with their skills to join the NHS. He hopes that other doctors will be similarly inspired by the film. \"I wanted to show I\u00a0was having a great time \u2013 training local people and enjoying the work, owning up to my responsibilities and encouraging others to do the same.\" Then he laughs, \"And if I get an Oscar out of it, am I going to say no?\"Saving Face will air on Channel 4 in early April. Dr Jawad blogs at www.mohammadjawad.com", "tags": ["Health & wellbeing", "Life and style", "Documentary", "Oscars 2012", "Film"], "title": "Saving faces in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-02-16T22:15:27Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, confronted the Pakistani leadership on Thursday on a visit to Islamabad as his frustration with the country he accuses of harbouring the Taliban boiled over.Karzai's language and tone flared to such an extent that the Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, intervened and called a halt to a meeting of the full delegations of the two countries, according to officials on both sides. After a break, a smaller meeting of just the top officials was held, on the first day of a two-day visit to Islamabad.The Afghan president has long demanded that Pakistan bring the leadership of the Taliban to the negotiating table, including its chief, Mullah Mohammad Omar.The Afghan side's main meeting on Thursday was with the combined Pakistani civilian and military leadership, which went on for around three hours, with the Pakistani prime minister, foreign minister, army chief and head of the intelligence service all present.At one point, apparently directing his remarks to Pakistan's foreign minister, Hina Rabbani Khar, Karzai asked: \"Would you be willing to stop girls studying in schools and university in Pakistan?\" The Taliban, when it ruled Afghanistan in the 1990s, stopped the education of girls and banned women from working.According to one insider, Karzai also bluntly demanded that Pakistan produce the Taliban to negotiate with him during his visit to the country. The source said that the Pakistani side was shocked by the Afghan leader's aggression.The nascent peace process, which offers the only hope for an end to the decade-long Afghan conflict, depends crucially on Afghanistan and Pakistan being able to co-operate. Islamabad denies that the Taliban leadership and Mullah Omar is on its soil, but Kabul and the west believe that they have sanctuary there, giving Islamabad decisive leverage over any negotiations.Karzai is understood to deeply resent what he feels is his government's marginalisation in the peace dialogue, which he sees as being controlled by the US or Pakistan, despite both countries repeatedly saying they want an \"Afghan-led\" process.US-backed efforts in recent months to open an office for the Taliban in the Gulf state of Qatar, to kickstart talks, was an initiative that Kabul felt excluded from.Pakistan's relationship with Afghanistan is only just recovering from accusations last year that the ISI was behind the assassination of Kabul's peace envoy, Burhanuddin Rabbani.Ahead of the Karzai visit, the Afghan ambassador in Islamabad, Umer Daudzai, a key adviser to the president, told a Pakistani newspaper: \"President Hamid Karzai will expect Pakistan to facilitate contacts and dialogue with Taliban.\"Pakistan says that it will aid Kabul's peace efforts but has never spelt out what it is capable of delivering. Conversely, Pakistan says that it is unclear what Karzai is demanding of it.\"We told them (the Afghan side) that you need to clarify what it is that you want,\" said Khar, speaking to a small group of foreign press following the official meetings. \"We need to understand each other much better.\"\"We will not block any process that works towards reconciliation.\"Khar described the discussions with the Afghan delegation as \"hard\" and \"serious\" but declined to go into any details. \"We don't have Mullah Omar to bring,\" she said. \"That's the crazy perception about Pakistan. It's ridiculous.\"", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Hamid Karzai", "Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Hamid Karzai confronts Pakistan leadership"},{"date": "2012-02-13T21:44:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The national reconciliation ordinance was a dirty deal, brokered by the Bush administration, between Pakistan's then military ruler Pervez Musharraf and Benazir Bhutto. It allowed her to return from exile and take part in elections in exchange for the dropping of corruption charges against her husband Asif Ali Zardari and other officials. The constitutional court was right to declare it unconstitutional two years later in 2009 and, it could be argued, equally right to demand the current government's full implementation of the court's decision.The court is trying to do this by requiring the serving prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, to write to the Swiss authorities asking them to reopen a corruption inquiry against Mr Zardari. This the prime minister refuses to do on the grounds that Mr Zardari, who is now president, enjoys executive immunity from prosecution both inside and outside the country. The immunity the president enjoys while in office has not been the issue in the court, only Mr Gilani's failure to comply with an unimplementable order. Yesterday he was charged with contempt, a move which could lead to his dismissal from office. If the legality of the court's move is debatable, the politics of it are extremely murky.First the timing. Having sat on this issue for three years, the supreme court are only now moving against Mr Gilani, who has become Pakistan's longest serving prime minister. He was also the only one to be have been voted unanimously in power by parliament. Why now? With elections coming up in March 2013 which the leading party in the coalition, the Pakistan People's Party, could very well win, this is an attempt to stop the civilian government from consolidating its power. In past eras this would have been done by tanks and generals. Today, it is been done by using supreme court justices as proxies. That may be called progress, but the manoeuvre to unseat a democratically elected government before its term is up remains the same.Further, no domestic proceedings are being brought against President Zardari. They want a foreign government to do their work for them. Nor is any politician in Pakistan in a rush to challenge the rule of the executive immunity from prosecution for the simple reason that in power they would be sure to benefit from it as well. Once Mr Zardari loses office, fairly and at an election, he will lose that immunity and it is entirely right that he should have to account for allegations that he received kickbacks in a court of law. But that is not the purpose of yesterday's contempt hearing. It is to sow political chaos and Mr Gilani is right to resist it. If he is convicted and forced from office, he will become a martyr in his party's eyes. This will only propel his career forward.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan politics: contempt for voters | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-12T21:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Zakia's face looks as if half of it has been rubbed out. What's left is one eye, half a\u00a0nose and a mouth that can no longer smile. She seldom leaves the house, and when she does she wears an all-encompassing black niqab and sunglasses.The young mother is just one of the 150 victims of acid attacks reported each year in Pakistan, according to the\u00a0charity Acid Survivors Foundation \u2013 although the true figure is likely to be much higher. It's a form of violence that has spread across the world from Uganda to Cambodia, and the victims are most often women and\u00a0children.In Pakistan, Zakia's case is only uncommon because instead of having to spend her life marked by the horrific attack, a British surgeon, Mohammad Jawad, is helping to rebuild her face. The treatment is followed in an Oscar-nominated documentary, Saving Face, Pakistan's first Academy Award nominationNow a pioneering surgeon in the field, just four years ago Jawad had never seen an acid attack injury, and certainly did not know they happened in Pakistan, the country in which he was born and trained as a doctor. Sitting in his prestigious cosmetic surgery clinic in central London, he tells me about his first case in 2008 at London's Chelsea and Westminster Hospital. Katie Piper, a 23-year-old model, had been disfigured by sulphuric acid thrown by a violent ex-boyfriend.Despite his years of training, Jawad admits that he was shocked, \"I had not seen anything like it before. I had seen bigger burns and on a younger patient, but never facial burns of this nature. Unless acid is neutralised it just keeps going deeper and deeper into your skin. All of the patients I had treated had been the victims of accidents \u2013 this was attempted murder.\" In a pioneering operation, Jawad used Matriderm \u2013 a synthetic skin substitute \u2013 to re-form her face. It had such impressive results that Piper referred to the surgeon as her \"hero\".After hearing about his results another doctor told him that attacks were rife in Pakistan. Jawad had already made frequent trips there to\u00a0carry out surgery on children with cleft palates, and burns victims who could not otherwise afford treatment. But he did not realise that the availability of acid for use in the cotton industry had led to assaults often linked to domestic violence or revenge attacks by rejected men. He began travelling to Pakistan every three months and holding free clinics (funded by charities including Islamic Help) to perform life-changing surgery. \"With these women it was three or four years after they had been attacked,\" he says. \"From the social justice point of view it was diabolical \u2013 [in some cases] the guys who did it might be caught, but bribe their way out of it. All I could do is use my skills to patch people up and give them a better face.\"On Zakia, Jawad was able to use the techniques he had learned through operating on Piper to carry out the first surgery of its kind in Pakistan. He used Matriderm to smooth her ravaged face, gave her a pair of glasses with a painted eye and attached a prosthetic nose, allowing her finally to show her face in\u00a0public.The documentary follows Zakia's attempt to bring the husband who attacked her to justice \u2013 and the successful fight by the Acid Survivors Foundation to introduce a law to ensure a minimum prison sentence of 14 years for perpetrators of acid attacks.Back in the UK, Jawad says he hopes the documentary will highlight the positive work plastic surgeons do every day in the NHS, and all over the world for patients with congenital, or developmental deformities, trauma injuries or cancer. \"I want to restore the glory of plastic surgeons. Boob jobs have overshadowed our work restoring patients \u2013 their limbs, or breasts from cancer for instance.\"The PIP scandal, which has left thousands of women with implants made of industrial-grade silicone \u2013 believed to be more likely to rupture and cause toxic contamination \u2013 has, he admits, not helped. Although he never used these implants in his own private clinic, Jawad says he was given them to use in his previous work for the Transform Cosmetic Surgery Group.His work in Pakistan, he says, is a \"moral obligation\" for doctors like himself who received training in the country almost for free, and then left with their skills to join the NHS. He hopes that other doctors will be similarly inspired by the film. \"I wanted to show I\u00a0was having a great time \u2013 training local people and enjoying the work, owning up to my responsibilities and encouraging others to do the same.\" Then he laughs, \"And if I get an Oscar out of it, am I going to say no?\"Saving Face will air on Channel 4 in early April. Dr Jawad blogs at www.mohammadjawad.com", "tags": ["Health & wellbeing", "Life and style", "Documentary", "Oscars 2012", "Film"], "title": "Saving faces in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-02-16T22:15:27Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, confronted the Pakistani leadership on Thursday on a visit to Islamabad as his frustration with the country he accuses of harbouring the Taliban boiled over.Karzai's language and tone flared to such an extent that the Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, intervened and called a halt to a meeting of the full delegations of the two countries, according to officials on both sides. After a break, a smaller meeting of just the top officials was held, on the first day of a two-day visit to Islamabad.The Afghan president has long demanded that Pakistan bring the leadership of the Taliban to the negotiating table, including its chief, Mullah Mohammad Omar.The Afghan side's main meeting on Thursday was with the combined Pakistani civilian and military leadership, which went on for around three hours, with the Pakistani prime minister, foreign minister, army chief and head of the intelligence service all present.At one point, apparently directing his remarks to Pakistan's foreign minister, Hina Rabbani Khar, Karzai asked: \"Would you be willing to stop girls studying in schools and university in Pakistan?\" The Taliban, when it ruled Afghanistan in the 1990s, stopped the education of girls and banned women from working.According to one insider, Karzai also bluntly demanded that Pakistan produce the Taliban to negotiate with him during his visit to the country. The source said that the Pakistani side was shocked by the Afghan leader's aggression.The nascent peace process, which offers the only hope for an end to the decade-long Afghan conflict, depends crucially on Afghanistan and Pakistan being able to co-operate. Islamabad denies that the Taliban leadership and Mullah Omar is on its soil, but Kabul and the west believe that they have sanctuary there, giving Islamabad decisive leverage over any negotiations.Karzai is understood to deeply resent what he feels is his government's marginalisation in the peace dialogue, which he sees as being controlled by the US or Pakistan, despite both countries repeatedly saying they want an \"Afghan-led\" process.US-backed efforts in recent months to open an office for the Taliban in the Gulf state of Qatar, to kickstart talks, was an initiative that Kabul felt excluded from.Pakistan's relationship with Afghanistan is only just recovering from accusations last year that the ISI was behind the assassination of Kabul's peace envoy, Burhanuddin Rabbani.Ahead of the Karzai visit, the Afghan ambassador in Islamabad, Umer Daudzai, a key adviser to the president, told a Pakistani newspaper: \"President Hamid Karzai will expect Pakistan to facilitate contacts and dialogue with Taliban.\"Pakistan says that it will aid Kabul's peace efforts but has never spelt out what it is capable of delivering. Conversely, Pakistan says that it is unclear what Karzai is demanding of it.\"We told them (the Afghan side) that you need to clarify what it is that you want,\" said Khar, speaking to a small group of foreign press following the official meetings. \"We need to understand each other much better.\"\"We will not block any process that works towards reconciliation.\"Khar described the discussions with the Afghan delegation as \"hard\" and \"serious\" but declined to go into any details. \"We don't have Mullah Omar to bring,\" she said. \"That's the crazy perception about Pakistan. It's ridiculous.\"", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Hamid Karzai", "Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Hamid Karzai confronts Pakistan leadership"},{"date": "2012-02-13T21:44:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The national reconciliation ordinance was a dirty deal, brokered by the Bush administration, between Pakistan's then military ruler Pervez Musharraf and Benazir Bhutto. It allowed her to return from exile and take part in elections in exchange for the dropping of corruption charges against her husband Asif Ali Zardari and other officials. The constitutional court was right to declare it unconstitutional two years later in 2009 and, it could be argued, equally right to demand the current government's full implementation of the court's decision.The court is trying to do this by requiring the serving prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, to write to the Swiss authorities asking them to reopen a corruption inquiry against Mr Zardari. This the prime minister refuses to do on the grounds that Mr Zardari, who is now president, enjoys executive immunity from prosecution both inside and outside the country. The immunity the president enjoys while in office has not been the issue in the court, only Mr Gilani's failure to comply with an unimplementable order. Yesterday he was charged with contempt, a move which could lead to his dismissal from office. If the legality of the court's move is debatable, the politics of it are extremely murky.First the timing. Having sat on this issue for three years, the supreme court are only now moving against Mr Gilani, who has become Pakistan's longest serving prime minister. He was also the only one to be have been voted unanimously in power by parliament. Why now? With elections coming up in March 2013 which the leading party in the coalition, the Pakistan People's Party, could very well win, this is an attempt to stop the civilian government from consolidating its power. In past eras this would have been done by tanks and generals. Today, it is been done by using supreme court justices as proxies. That may be called progress, but the manoeuvre to unseat a democratically elected government before its term is up remains the same.Further, no domestic proceedings are being brought against President Zardari. They want a foreign government to do their work for them. Nor is any politician in Pakistan in a rush to challenge the rule of the executive immunity from prosecution for the simple reason that in power they would be sure to benefit from it as well. Once Mr Zardari loses office, fairly and at an election, he will lose that immunity and it is entirely right that he should have to account for allegations that he received kickbacks in a court of law. But that is not the purpose of yesterday's contempt hearing. It is to sow political chaos and Mr Gilani is right to resist it. If he is convicted and forced from office, he will become a martyr in his party's eyes. This will only propel his career forward.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan politics: contempt for voters | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-06T07:57:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "At least two people were killed and up to 100 trapped, thought to be mostly women and children, after a factory collapsed in Lahore.The desperate cries of children could be heard from beneath the rubble, including two sisters pleading to be pulled out, as rescuers battled to remove the debris of the three-storey factory. It appeared that the facility's boiler or stored gas cylinders had exploded at around 8.30am local time on Monday.Reports said up to 100 people were stuck beneath wreckage, with two bodies and 15 injured pulled out by noon with the help of mechanical diggers. Many of the trapped were children, who had provided cheap labour at the medicine plant, which was located against regulations amid narrow streets in a residential area. It was believed the survivors could be trapped in the basement.Angry residents said the factory had been previously closed up to five times on court orders but the political connections of its owners had got it reopened. The owner of the house adjoining the plant, which was also destroyed in the blast, said he had been fighting since 2005 to get police and the courts to shut the factory.Senior Lahore city official Ahad Cheema, speaking to reporters at the scene, said: \"Illegal commercial units are a big problem. It will take time to solve this issue. I'm told this factory was sealed two or three times.\"The revelations about the illegality of the factory will add to the political problems of the provincial government of Punjab, which is run by the main opposition party. The administration of Shahbaz Sharif, brother of former prime minister Nawaz Sharif, has been hit by multiple crisis of governance, including a deadly outbreak of Dengue fever in 2011 and a scandal this year over medicines given to heart patients at a public hospital that turned out to be poisonous and killed 120 people.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Child labour"], "title": "Pakistan factory collapse traps scores"},{"date": "2012-02-12T21:00:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Zakia's face looks as if half of it has been rubbed out. What's left is one eye, half a\u00a0nose and a mouth that can no longer smile. She seldom leaves the house, and when she does she wears an all-encompassing black niqab and sunglasses.The young mother is just one of the 150 victims of acid attacks reported each year in Pakistan, according to the\u00a0charity Acid Survivors Foundation \u2013 although the true figure is likely to be much higher. It's a form of violence that has spread across the world from Uganda to Cambodia, and the victims are most often women and\u00a0children.In Pakistan, Zakia's case is only uncommon because instead of having to spend her life marked by the horrific attack, a British surgeon, Mohammad Jawad, is helping to rebuild her face. The treatment is followed in an Oscar-nominated documentary, Saving Face, Pakistan's first Academy Award nominationNow a pioneering surgeon in the field, just four years ago Jawad had never seen an acid attack injury, and certainly did not know they happened in Pakistan, the country in which he was born and trained as a doctor. Sitting in his prestigious cosmetic surgery clinic in central London, he tells me about his first case in 2008 at London's Chelsea and Westminster Hospital. Katie Piper, a 23-year-old model, had been disfigured by sulphuric acid thrown by a violent ex-boyfriend.Despite his years of training, Jawad admits that he was shocked, \"I had not seen anything like it before. I had seen bigger burns and on a younger patient, but never facial burns of this nature. Unless acid is neutralised it just keeps going deeper and deeper into your skin. All of the patients I had treated had been the victims of accidents \u2013 this was attempted murder.\" In a pioneering operation, Jawad used Matriderm \u2013 a synthetic skin substitute \u2013 to re-form her face. It had such impressive results that Piper referred to the surgeon as her \"hero\".After hearing about his results another doctor told him that attacks were rife in Pakistan. Jawad had already made frequent trips there to\u00a0carry out surgery on children with cleft palates, and burns victims who could not otherwise afford treatment. But he did not realise that the availability of acid for use in the cotton industry had led to assaults often linked to domestic violence or revenge attacks by rejected men. He began travelling to Pakistan every three months and holding free clinics (funded by charities including Islamic Help) to perform life-changing surgery. \"With these women it was three or four years after they had been attacked,\" he says. \"From the social justice point of view it was diabolical \u2013 [in some cases] the guys who did it might be caught, but bribe their way out of it. All I could do is use my skills to patch people up and give them a better face.\"On Zakia, Jawad was able to use the techniques he had learned through operating on Piper to carry out the first surgery of its kind in Pakistan. He used Matriderm to smooth her ravaged face, gave her a pair of glasses with a painted eye and attached a prosthetic nose, allowing her finally to show her face in\u00a0public.The documentary follows Zakia's attempt to bring the husband who attacked her to justice \u2013 and the successful fight by the Acid Survivors Foundation to introduce a law to ensure a minimum prison sentence of 14 years for perpetrators of acid attacks.Back in the UK, Jawad says he hopes the documentary will highlight the positive work plastic surgeons do every day in the NHS, and all over the world for patients with congenital, or developmental deformities, trauma injuries or cancer. \"I want to restore the glory of plastic surgeons. Boob jobs have overshadowed our work restoring patients \u2013 their limbs, or breasts from cancer for instance.\"The PIP scandal, which has left thousands of women with implants made of industrial-grade silicone \u2013 believed to be more likely to rupture and cause toxic contamination \u2013 has, he admits, not helped. Although he never used these implants in his own private clinic, Jawad says he was given them to use in his previous work for the Transform Cosmetic Surgery Group.His work in Pakistan, he says, is a \"moral obligation\" for doctors like himself who received training in the country almost for free, and then left with their skills to join the NHS. He hopes that other doctors will be similarly inspired by the film. \"I wanted to show I\u00a0was having a great time \u2013 training local people and enjoying the work, owning up to my responsibilities and encouraging others to do the same.\" Then he laughs, \"And if I get an Oscar out of it, am I going to say no?\"Saving Face will air on Channel 4 in early April. Dr Jawad blogs at www.mohammadjawad.com", "tags": ["Health & wellbeing", "Life and style", "Documentary", "Oscars 2012", "Film"], "title": "Saving faces in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-02-16T22:15:27Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, confronted the Pakistani leadership on Thursday on a visit to Islamabad as his frustration with the country he accuses of harbouring the Taliban boiled over.Karzai's language and tone flared to such an extent that the Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani, intervened and called a halt to a meeting of the full delegations of the two countries, according to officials on both sides. After a break, a smaller meeting of just the top officials was held, on the first day of a two-day visit to Islamabad.The Afghan president has long demanded that Pakistan bring the leadership of the Taliban to the negotiating table, including its chief, Mullah Mohammad Omar.The Afghan side's main meeting on Thursday was with the combined Pakistani civilian and military leadership, which went on for around three hours, with the Pakistani prime minister, foreign minister, army chief and head of the intelligence service all present.At one point, apparently directing his remarks to Pakistan's foreign minister, Hina Rabbani Khar, Karzai asked: \"Would you be willing to stop girls studying in schools and university in Pakistan?\" The Taliban, when it ruled Afghanistan in the 1990s, stopped the education of girls and banned women from working.According to one insider, Karzai also bluntly demanded that Pakistan produce the Taliban to negotiate with him during his visit to the country. The source said that the Pakistani side was shocked by the Afghan leader's aggression.The nascent peace process, which offers the only hope for an end to the decade-long Afghan conflict, depends crucially on Afghanistan and Pakistan being able to co-operate. Islamabad denies that the Taliban leadership and Mullah Omar is on its soil, but Kabul and the west believe that they have sanctuary there, giving Islamabad decisive leverage over any negotiations.Karzai is understood to deeply resent what he feels is his government's marginalisation in the peace dialogue, which he sees as being controlled by the US or Pakistan, despite both countries repeatedly saying they want an \"Afghan-led\" process.US-backed efforts in recent months to open an office for the Taliban in the Gulf state of Qatar, to kickstart talks, was an initiative that Kabul felt excluded from.Pakistan's relationship with Afghanistan is only just recovering from accusations last year that the ISI was behind the assassination of Kabul's peace envoy, Burhanuddin Rabbani.Ahead of the Karzai visit, the Afghan ambassador in Islamabad, Umer Daudzai, a key adviser to the president, told a Pakistani newspaper: \"President Hamid Karzai will expect Pakistan to facilitate contacts and dialogue with Taliban.\"Pakistan says that it will aid Kabul's peace efforts but has never spelt out what it is capable of delivering. Conversely, Pakistan says that it is unclear what Karzai is demanding of it.\"We told them (the Afghan side) that you need to clarify what it is that you want,\" said Khar, speaking to a small group of foreign press following the official meetings. \"We need to understand each other much better.\"\"We will not block any process that works towards reconciliation.\"Khar described the discussions with the Afghan delegation as \"hard\" and \"serious\" but declined to go into any details. \"We don't have Mullah Omar to bring,\" she said. \"That's the crazy perception about Pakistan. It's ridiculous.\"", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Hamid Karzai", "Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Hamid Karzai confronts Pakistan leadership"},{"date": "2012-02-13T21:44:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The national reconciliation ordinance was a dirty deal, brokered by the Bush administration, between Pakistan's then military ruler Pervez Musharraf and Benazir Bhutto. It allowed her to return from exile and take part in elections in exchange for the dropping of corruption charges against her husband Asif Ali Zardari and other officials. The constitutional court was right to declare it unconstitutional two years later in 2009 and, it could be argued, equally right to demand the current government's full implementation of the court's decision.The court is trying to do this by requiring the serving prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, to write to the Swiss authorities asking them to reopen a corruption inquiry against Mr Zardari. This the prime minister refuses to do on the grounds that Mr Zardari, who is now president, enjoys executive immunity from prosecution both inside and outside the country. The immunity the president enjoys while in office has not been the issue in the court, only Mr Gilani's failure to comply with an unimplementable order. Yesterday he was charged with contempt, a move which could lead to his dismissal from office. If the legality of the court's move is debatable, the politics of it are extremely murky.First the timing. Having sat on this issue for three years, the supreme court are only now moving against Mr Gilani, who has become Pakistan's longest serving prime minister. He was also the only one to be have been voted unanimously in power by parliament. Why now? With elections coming up in March 2013 which the leading party in the coalition, the Pakistan People's Party, could very well win, this is an attempt to stop the civilian government from consolidating its power. In past eras this would have been done by tanks and generals. Today, it is been done by using supreme court justices as proxies. That may be called progress, but the manoeuvre to unseat a democratically elected government before its term is up remains the same.Further, no domestic proceedings are being brought against President Zardari. They want a foreign government to do their work for them. Nor is any politician in Pakistan in a rush to challenge the rule of the executive immunity from prosecution for the simple reason that in power they would be sure to benefit from it as well. Once Mr Zardari loses office, fairly and at an election, he will lose that immunity and it is entirely right that he should have to account for allegations that he received kickbacks in a court of law. But that is not the purpose of yesterday's contempt hearing. It is to sow political chaos and Mr Gilani is right to resist it. If he is convicted and forced from office, he will become a martyr in his party's eyes. This will only propel his career forward.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan politics: contempt for voters | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-06T07:57:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "At least two people were killed and up to 100 trapped, thought to be mostly women and children, after a factory collapsed in Lahore.The desperate cries of children could be heard from beneath the rubble, including two sisters pleading to be pulled out, as rescuers battled to remove the debris of the three-storey factory. It appeared that the facility's boiler or stored gas cylinders had exploded at around 8.30am local time on Monday.Reports said up to 100 people were stuck beneath wreckage, with two bodies and 15 injured pulled out by noon with the help of mechanical diggers. Many of the trapped were children, who had provided cheap labour at the medicine plant, which was located against regulations amid narrow streets in a residential area. It was believed the survivors could be trapped in the basement.Angry residents said the factory had been previously closed up to five times on court orders but the political connections of its owners had got it reopened. The owner of the house adjoining the plant, which was also destroyed in the blast, said he had been fighting since 2005 to get police and the courts to shut the factory.Senior Lahore city official Ahad Cheema, speaking to reporters at the scene, said: \"Illegal commercial units are a big problem. It will take time to solve this issue. I'm told this factory was sealed two or three times.\"The revelations about the illegality of the factory will add to the political problems of the provincial government of Punjab, which is run by the main opposition party. The administration of Shahbaz Sharif, brother of former prime minister Nawaz Sharif, has been hit by multiple crisis of governance, including a deadly outbreak of Dengue fever in 2011 and a scandal this year over medicines given to heart patients at a public hospital that turned out to be poisonous and killed 120 people.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Child labour"], "title": "Pakistan factory collapse traps scores"},{"date": "2012-02-17T18:41:21Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "It claims to not only be the most anticipated film in the history of Pakistan, but to be based on true events. And, for once, the Hollywood-style hyperbole can be excused. The feature-length action thriller called Waar (\"to strike\" in Urdu) is eagerly awaited, despite being out of tune with the trend for movies packed with singing and dancing.Waar is coming to cinemas in Islamabad, Lahore, Karachi and even the restive frontier city of Peshawar later this year. The trailer was viewed more than 500,000 times in the first month when posted on YouTube in January, entering the website's top five videos.Inspired by real events such as a Muslim extremist assault on a Pakistani police academy in 2009, the film follows a team of anti-terrorist police officers who, with time running out, try to stop a new attack. But the subject matter is not the only attraction, say local critics. With its slick production and use of digital technology, the film, reportedly the country's most expensive ever, is a long way from the staples of local cinema.\"Waar is very, very new,\" says Sher Ali Khan, film reporter for the Express Tribune newspaper.In recent years, there has been a series of films dealing with edgy subjects in Pakistan but these were made by, and watched by, the westernised middle classes. \"So far the masses haven't accepted these new kind of films. They have catered to the westernised upper middle class. Popular tastes have stayed with the standard styles of plot and production,\" says Khan. \"Waar can be considered the first new wave film to go mainstream.\"One major difference with the traditional fare is the lack of song and dance routines. Director Bilal Lashari, who studied film-making in California, says: \"There was just no question, even if people were telling me: 'How can you do without them?' For audiences here, it is going to be a complete 180 degree shift. From cinematography to style of acting, it is different from what has gone before.\"The Pakistani film industry, which flourished after the country's independence in 1947, has languished for decades.Cinema owner and distributor Zorraiz Lashari says a combination of booming cable television outlets and competition from India's Bollywood film industry almost finished off the local studios, concentrated in the western city of Lahore and known collectively, if somewhat unoriginally, as Lollywood.\"It costs 20m rupees [\u00a3140,000] minimum to make a decent movie and it's very difficult to get your money back. You can buy a Hindi-language film from India for half or a quarter of that price,\" Lashari says.From 700 cinemas in 1977, there are now only 175 and the only films to turn a profit have been in languages such as Pashtu or Sindhi, spoken in particular regions of the country, where Indian productions are incomprehensible.Weak regulation leading to endemic pirating is one major problem. There are even occasional efforts to temporarily ban Indian movies.\"Even if a couple of multiplexes have opened, cinema is still very niche,\" says Sarah Tareen, a Lahore-based producer. \"The main medium is television. Only a fraction of the population go out to watch films.\"However, along with Waar, a whole series of similar films is being readied for release in coming months.One is Kaptaan, a cinematic rendering of the recent life of Imran Khan, the cricketer turned politician who currently tops popularity polls in Pakistan. The film will cover Khan's life since retiring from sport 20 years ago and will dramatise his entry into politics as well as his failed marriage to Jemima Goldsmith, who is played by a Pakistan-American actress.Tareen is producing Tamanna (Desire), a drama exploring class, adultery and, through flashbacks, the heyday of Lollywood. \"It is neither action-based nor Bollywood-style. It is much more a pure drama with a narrative telling the story of three individuals,\" she says.Sanaa Ahmed, a film journalist in Pakistan, sees the new developments in Pakistan as part of a broader global trend. \"There are a lot of new young people with stories to tell who are figuring out ways to tell it,\" she says. \"It's a new wave.\"Lashari says Pakistan needs to \"recreate\" its cinema. \"Everyone here has been following Bollywood but the best we can ever come up with is going to be a B grade knock off. We need to create our own identity,\" he says.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Thriller", "Crime", "Film", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan film fans prepare for Waar"},{"date": "2012-06-04T19:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Bouncing around in a plane going through heavy turbulence is never much fun. It's even more nerve-wracking when you're in the night sky above Islamabad airport in an aircraft struggling to find a gap in storm clouds through which to land.In the early hours of 26 May, passengers flying in from Dubai lurched around for nearly three hours above the Pakistani capital. Three times, the pilot started his descent before thinking better of it and yanking his Boeing 777 back to higher altitude. Passengers struggled to concentrate on their inflight movies amid all the shaking and the sound of fellow travellers retching into sick bags. If they weren't feeling nauseous enough, the pilot piped up after the third abandoned descent to explain to the passengers that the \"lights at the airport are not working\". Officials at the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) deny that it is even possible for the landing\u00a0lights to fail at Benazir Bhutto International Airport.But few would be surprised in a country that often seems to be coming apart at the seams. All\u00a0around Pakistan, furious mobs have been rioting over ever worsening power outages. Fixing the problem by collecting outstanding electricity bills is almost impossible given that the government itself is one of the biggest debtors. In April, it emerged that all the CCTV cameras in Lahore's train station were turned off when a bomb exploded in a waiting area. State institutions often appear helpless to tackle\u00a0such\u00a0problems. Or they are too compromised by political considerations in a country gearing up for an election. So, whether or not Islamabad airport really was shrouded in darkness during a night-time storm last month, few board a plane these days with\u00a0complete confidence in the systems intended to\u00a0keep them safe.Islamabad airport has now experienced two\u00a0catastrophic crashes in as many years. On 20\u00a0April, a Boeing 737 operated by Bhoja Air went\u00a0down in a storm as it was approaching to land, scatting debris and body parts over a wide area. It was the revamped airline's maiden flight from Karachi. The tragedy occurred almost two years after another storm during which an Airblue\u00a0flight from Karachi sailed over the buildings that house Pakistan's bureaucrats and smashed into the side of the Margalla Hills, killing\u00a0all\u00a0146\u00a0on board.Then there is the spate of smaller incidents. Days after the Bhoja crash, two tyres on a plane burst during landing in Karachi. On the same day, another jet taking off from Lahore was found to be leaking fuel on to the runway. One former head of the country's air accident investigation board says his officials often caught private airlines taking short cuts. They once found an airline trying to patch up a damaged aircraft wheel at a car tyre puncture-repair shop. The airlines would often appeal against regulators by going to friends\u00a0in the government or in Pakistan's powerful military. \"Sometimes they could get away with things that were less than ideal,\" the\u00a0former official says.That includes lobbying the Civil Aviation Authority for waivers allowing pilots to fly longer\u00a0hours than legally allowed. And many of the elderly planes now look pretty shabby. One flier reports seeing an overhead baggage compartment held closed with duct tape.Bhoja airline first started in 1993 but was closed\u00a0down in 2000 after failing to pay \u00a3620,000 in outstanding dues. The business restarted this year with an ultra-low-cost ticket offering. It leased aircraft from a South African company that\u00a0were more than 30 years old. Such elderly planes, described by one civil aviation official as little better than \"scrap\", come with very high maintenance costs. Despite the old planes and alarming corporate history, officials who have seen the preliminary findings of the official inquiry say the blame has been put squarely on the pilot. The report is said to reveal that the retired air force pilot was very experienced but had not flown any planes for at least a year before\u00a0taking to the skies with Bhoja.\"Our pilots are under much greater stress than someone working for Emirates or Lufthansa because they happen to live in a country called Pakistan,\" said Siraj ul Mulk, a retired pilot himself. \"They can't sleep properly because there is load shedding all night, their neighbours get kidnapped for ransom or burgled. These are the sorts of issues they bring with them into the cockpit.\" But he suspects the issues most on the mind of the unfortunate Bhoja pilot were commercial ones. Ul Mulk worries that the pilot may have been concerned with burning extra fuel if he\u00a0had diverted all the way to Lahore, so he pressed on\u00a0into the storm.Rashid Ali, an academic who teaches avionics at the University of Hertfordshire, says senior aviation officials in Pakistan have told him that two other planes diverted to Lahore that evening\u00a0rather than attempting to land in Islamabad. He wonders if the full\u00a0truth will ever come out. \"But\u00a0in Pakistan it is easier to brush things\u00a0under the carpet and\u00a0just blame the dead\u00a0pilot,\" he\u00a0says.", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Air transport"], "title": "Perilous journeys: aviation in Pakistan | Jon Boone"},{"date": "2012-06-04T19:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Bouncing around in a plane going through heavy turbulence is never much fun. It's even more nerve-wracking when you're in the night sky above Islamabad airport in an aircraft struggling to find a gap in storm clouds through which to land.In the early hours of 26 May, passengers flying in from Dubai lurched around for nearly three hours above the Pakistani capital. Three times, the pilot started his descent before thinking better of it and yanking his Boeing 777 back to higher altitude. Passengers struggled to concentrate on their inflight movies amid all the shaking and the sound of fellow travellers retching into sick bags. If they weren't feeling nauseous enough, the pilot piped up after the third abandoned descent to explain to the passengers that the \"lights at the airport are not working\". Officials at the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) deny that it is even possible for the landing\u00a0lights to fail at Benazir Bhutto International Airport.But few would be surprised in a country that often seems to be coming apart at the seams. All\u00a0around Pakistan, furious mobs have been rioting over ever worsening power outages. Fixing the problem by collecting outstanding electricity bills is almost impossible given that the government itself is one of the biggest debtors. In April, it emerged that all the CCTV cameras in Lahore's train station were turned off when a bomb exploded in a waiting area. State institutions often appear helpless to tackle\u00a0such\u00a0problems. Or they are too compromised by political considerations in a country gearing up for an election. So, whether or not Islamabad airport really was shrouded in darkness during a night-time storm last month, few board a plane these days with\u00a0complete confidence in the systems intended to\u00a0keep them safe.Islamabad airport has now experienced two\u00a0catastrophic crashes in as many years. On 20\u00a0April, a Boeing 737 operated by Bhoja Air went\u00a0down in a storm as it was approaching to land, scatting debris and body parts over a wide area. It was the revamped airline's maiden flight from Karachi. The tragedy occurred almost two years after another storm during which an Airblue\u00a0flight from Karachi sailed over the buildings that house Pakistan's bureaucrats and smashed into the side of the Margalla Hills, killing\u00a0all\u00a0146\u00a0on board.Then there is the spate of smaller incidents. Days after the Bhoja crash, two tyres on a plane burst during landing in Karachi. On the same day, another jet taking off from Lahore was found to be leaking fuel on to the runway. One former head of the country's air accident investigation board says his officials often caught private airlines taking short cuts. They once found an airline trying to patch up a damaged aircraft wheel at a car tyre puncture-repair shop. The airlines would often appeal against regulators by going to friends\u00a0in the government or in Pakistan's powerful military. \"Sometimes they could get away with things that were less than ideal,\" the\u00a0former official says.That includes lobbying the Civil Aviation Authority for waivers allowing pilots to fly longer\u00a0hours than legally allowed. And many of the elderly planes now look pretty shabby. One flier reports seeing an overhead baggage compartment held closed with duct tape.Bhoja airline first started in 1993 but was closed\u00a0down in 2000 after failing to pay \u00a3620,000 in outstanding dues. The business restarted this year with an ultra-low-cost ticket offering. It leased aircraft from a South African company that\u00a0were more than 30 years old. Such elderly planes, described by one civil aviation official as little better than \"scrap\", come with very high maintenance costs. Despite the old planes and alarming corporate history, officials who have seen the preliminary findings of the official inquiry say the blame has been put squarely on the pilot. The report is said to reveal that the retired air force pilot was very experienced but had not flown any planes for at least a year before\u00a0taking to the skies with Bhoja.\"Our pilots are under much greater stress than someone working for Emirates or Lufthansa because they happen to live in a country called Pakistan,\" said Siraj ul Mulk, a retired pilot himself. \"They can't sleep properly because there is load shedding all night, their neighbours get kidnapped for ransom or burgled. These are the sorts of issues they bring with them into the cockpit.\" But he suspects the issues most on the mind of the unfortunate Bhoja pilot were commercial ones. Ul Mulk worries that the pilot may have been concerned with burning extra fuel if he\u00a0had diverted all the way to Lahore, so he pressed on\u00a0into the storm.Rashid Ali, an academic who teaches avionics at the University of Hertfordshire, says senior aviation officials in Pakistan have told him that two other planes diverted to Lahore that evening\u00a0rather than attempting to land in Islamabad. He wonders if the full\u00a0truth will ever come out. \"But\u00a0in Pakistan it is easier to brush things\u00a0under the carpet and\u00a0just blame the dead\u00a0pilot,\" he\u00a0says.", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Air transport"], "title": "Perilous journeys: aviation in Pakistan | Jon Boone"},{"date": "2012-06-28T07:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"We want to reshape the country's image, develop a progressive brand and outlook,\" claimed 29-year-old Zahraa Saifullah, CEO and publisher of Hello! Pakistan at the glitzy launch of her magazine earlier this year. According to the hype, Hello! Pakistan will be a \"socially responsible and culturally aware family read\". A franchise of the international celebrity magazine (and the first of its kind to be launched in Pakistan) Hello! is seldom associated with such lofty ambitions as the rebranding of a nation of 180 million people. In fact in the 100-odd countries in which it is distributed, Hello! is famous for its gushing interviews and forgiving photographs celebrating the lives of the rich and famous.Yet that Hello! has a market at all in Pakistan is probably surprising to readers in the west where the country is known more for its appetite for jihad than its appetite for glamour. In Pakistan itself reaction to the magazine's arrival reflect the deep divisions within society. Response has ranged from unease and hostility in some quarters, to glee in others. While the liberal fringe is troubled by the magazine's unapologetic celebration of flamboyant consumerism in a society beset by grinding poverty and deep inequalities, religious and social conservatives fulminate at the promotion of western values which they deem anti-Islamic and by extension, anti-state. Meanwhile, the tiny elite that is equally at home on the streets of New York and London as in the bazaars of Lahore and Karachi, is thrilled at the prospect of sharing editorial space with the likes of Sean Penn and Angelina Jolie.Alive to the controversy surrounding the publication of her magazine, Saifullah has tried to counter criticism by espousing virtuous goals. Hence the tall claims, which sit so oddly with the magazine's ethos elsewhere. While Hello! UK is perfectly content devoting lavish double-page spreads to reality TV contestants, Hello! Pakistan, Saifullah insists, will be \"achievement oriented\"; promoting those who \"are doing and have done great things\".Worthy though these claims are, in reality they are often incompatible with the unashamed pursuit of glitz. Those who do\"great things\", whether it be rehabilitation of rape victims or eradication of malaria, are often neither glamorous nor famous. Some candidates, of course, conveniently tick both boxes. The Oscar-winning film director, Sharmeen Obaid Chinoy, is one such celebrity. Well spoken, photogenic and socially responsible (her documentary was about female victims of acid attacks), she featured in the very first issue. But state-sponsored Islamisation over three successive decades has all but decimated the arts, sports and fashion, fields that traditionally produce celebrities in other countries. Pakistan has neither a thriving film industry like India, nor a vibrant sports scene like Argentina, nor an uninterrupted indigenous design tradition like Thailand \u2013 all countries with their own successful franchises of Hello. Little wonder then that Pakistan has a paucity of sporting stars, dazzling actresses and world famous designers to fill page after page of successive issues of Hello.To marry worthiness with bona fide glamour Saifullah will most likely have to fall back on charity circles among the moneyed elites. Enter the grand dames who host lavish fund raising balls in their mansions to raise money for schools for street children and hospitals for the poor. Or perhaps even chatshow hostesses and TV anchors like Mathira and Juggan Kazim who, in the absence of do-gooding Miss Worlds, will have to be both great and glamorous for the Hello! reading public of Pakistan.Yet there is no denying there is a genuine thirst for glamour in Pakistan. The many racy posters of sultry Bollywood actresses adorning every bazaar and the massive viewing figures for chat shows hosted by \"hot\" female hosts attest to it. However, with English the preserve of the rich and the magazine priced at a steep Rs 500 ($5.50) the Hello! readership is likely to be small. That said, 15,000 copies of the first issue sold out within a day (local English monthlies struggle to reach figures of 3,000). Perhaps it was the excitement of the first issue, or perhaps it was the grand dames who came out in force to celebrate their own homecoming, whatever the explanation, the arrival of Hello! Pakistan did not go unnoticed.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Magazines", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "World news", "Celebrity", "Life and style"], "title": "Hello! to a more glamorous Pakistan | Moni Mohsin"},{"date": "2012-06-04T19:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Bouncing around in a plane going through heavy turbulence is never much fun. It's even more nerve-wracking when you're in the night sky above Islamabad airport in an aircraft struggling to find a gap in storm clouds through which to land.In the early hours of 26 May, passengers flying in from Dubai lurched around for nearly three hours above the Pakistani capital. Three times, the pilot started his descent before thinking better of it and yanking his Boeing 777 back to higher altitude. Passengers struggled to concentrate on their inflight movies amid all the shaking and the sound of fellow travellers retching into sick bags. If they weren't feeling nauseous enough, the pilot piped up after the third abandoned descent to explain to the passengers that the \"lights at the airport are not working\". Officials at the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) deny that it is even possible for the landing\u00a0lights to fail at Benazir Bhutto International Airport.But few would be surprised in a country that often seems to be coming apart at the seams. All\u00a0around Pakistan, furious mobs have been rioting over ever worsening power outages. Fixing the problem by collecting outstanding electricity bills is almost impossible given that the government itself is one of the biggest debtors. In April, it emerged that all the CCTV cameras in Lahore's train station were turned off when a bomb exploded in a waiting area. State institutions often appear helpless to tackle\u00a0such\u00a0problems. Or they are too compromised by political considerations in a country gearing up for an election. So, whether or not Islamabad airport really was shrouded in darkness during a night-time storm last month, few board a plane these days with\u00a0complete confidence in the systems intended to\u00a0keep them safe.Islamabad airport has now experienced two\u00a0catastrophic crashes in as many years. On 20\u00a0April, a Boeing 737 operated by Bhoja Air went\u00a0down in a storm as it was approaching to land, scatting debris and body parts over a wide area. It was the revamped airline's maiden flight from Karachi. The tragedy occurred almost two years after another storm during which an Airblue\u00a0flight from Karachi sailed over the buildings that house Pakistan's bureaucrats and smashed into the side of the Margalla Hills, killing\u00a0all\u00a0146\u00a0on board.Then there is the spate of smaller incidents. Days after the Bhoja crash, two tyres on a plane burst during landing in Karachi. On the same day, another jet taking off from Lahore was found to be leaking fuel on to the runway. One former head of the country's air accident investigation board says his officials often caught private airlines taking short cuts. They once found an airline trying to patch up a damaged aircraft wheel at a car tyre puncture-repair shop. The airlines would often appeal against regulators by going to friends\u00a0in the government or in Pakistan's powerful military. \"Sometimes they could get away with things that were less than ideal,\" the\u00a0former official says.That includes lobbying the Civil Aviation Authority for waivers allowing pilots to fly longer\u00a0hours than legally allowed. And many of the elderly planes now look pretty shabby. One flier reports seeing an overhead baggage compartment held closed with duct tape.Bhoja airline first started in 1993 but was closed\u00a0down in 2000 after failing to pay \u00a3620,000 in outstanding dues. The business restarted this year with an ultra-low-cost ticket offering. It leased aircraft from a South African company that\u00a0were more than 30 years old. Such elderly planes, described by one civil aviation official as little better than \"scrap\", come with very high maintenance costs. Despite the old planes and alarming corporate history, officials who have seen the preliminary findings of the official inquiry say the blame has been put squarely on the pilot. The report is said to reveal that the retired air force pilot was very experienced but had not flown any planes for at least a year before\u00a0taking to the skies with Bhoja.\"Our pilots are under much greater stress than someone working for Emirates or Lufthansa because they happen to live in a country called Pakistan,\" said Siraj ul Mulk, a retired pilot himself. \"They can't sleep properly because there is load shedding all night, their neighbours get kidnapped for ransom or burgled. These are the sorts of issues they bring with them into the cockpit.\" But he suspects the issues most on the mind of the unfortunate Bhoja pilot were commercial ones. Ul Mulk worries that the pilot may have been concerned with burning extra fuel if he\u00a0had diverted all the way to Lahore, so he pressed on\u00a0into the storm.Rashid Ali, an academic who teaches avionics at the University of Hertfordshire, says senior aviation officials in Pakistan have told him that two other planes diverted to Lahore that evening\u00a0rather than attempting to land in Islamabad. He wonders if the full\u00a0truth will ever come out. \"But\u00a0in Pakistan it is easier to brush things\u00a0under the carpet and\u00a0just blame the dead\u00a0pilot,\" he\u00a0says.", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Air transport"], "title": "Perilous journeys: aviation in Pakistan | Jon Boone"},{"date": "2012-06-28T07:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"We want to reshape the country's image, develop a progressive brand and outlook,\" claimed 29-year-old Zahraa Saifullah, CEO and publisher of Hello! Pakistan at the glitzy launch of her magazine earlier this year. According to the hype, Hello! Pakistan will be a \"socially responsible and culturally aware family read\". A franchise of the international celebrity magazine (and the first of its kind to be launched in Pakistan) Hello! is seldom associated with such lofty ambitions as the rebranding of a nation of 180 million people. In fact in the 100-odd countries in which it is distributed, Hello! is famous for its gushing interviews and forgiving photographs celebrating the lives of the rich and famous.Yet that Hello! has a market at all in Pakistan is probably surprising to readers in the west where the country is known more for its appetite for jihad than its appetite for glamour. In Pakistan itself reaction to the magazine's arrival reflect the deep divisions within society. Response has ranged from unease and hostility in some quarters, to glee in others. While the liberal fringe is troubled by the magazine's unapologetic celebration of flamboyant consumerism in a society beset by grinding poverty and deep inequalities, religious and social conservatives fulminate at the promotion of western values which they deem anti-Islamic and by extension, anti-state. Meanwhile, the tiny elite that is equally at home on the streets of New York and London as in the bazaars of Lahore and Karachi, is thrilled at the prospect of sharing editorial space with the likes of Sean Penn and Angelina Jolie.Alive to the controversy surrounding the publication of her magazine, Saifullah has tried to counter criticism by espousing virtuous goals. Hence the tall claims, which sit so oddly with the magazine's ethos elsewhere. While Hello! UK is perfectly content devoting lavish double-page spreads to reality TV contestants, Hello! Pakistan, Saifullah insists, will be \"achievement oriented\"; promoting those who \"are doing and have done great things\".Worthy though these claims are, in reality they are often incompatible with the unashamed pursuit of glitz. Those who do\"great things\", whether it be rehabilitation of rape victims or eradication of malaria, are often neither glamorous nor famous. Some candidates, of course, conveniently tick both boxes. The Oscar-winning film director, Sharmeen Obaid Chinoy, is one such celebrity. Well spoken, photogenic and socially responsible (her documentary was about female victims of acid attacks), she featured in the very first issue. But state-sponsored Islamisation over three successive decades has all but decimated the arts, sports and fashion, fields that traditionally produce celebrities in other countries. Pakistan has neither a thriving film industry like India, nor a vibrant sports scene like Argentina, nor an uninterrupted indigenous design tradition like Thailand \u2013 all countries with their own successful franchises of Hello. Little wonder then that Pakistan has a paucity of sporting stars, dazzling actresses and world famous designers to fill page after page of successive issues of Hello.To marry worthiness with bona fide glamour Saifullah will most likely have to fall back on charity circles among the moneyed elites. Enter the grand dames who host lavish fund raising balls in their mansions to raise money for schools for street children and hospitals for the poor. Or perhaps even chatshow hostesses and TV anchors like Mathira and Juggan Kazim who, in the absence of do-gooding Miss Worlds, will have to be both great and glamorous for the Hello! reading public of Pakistan.Yet there is no denying there is a genuine thirst for glamour in Pakistan. The many racy posters of sultry Bollywood actresses adorning every bazaar and the massive viewing figures for chat shows hosted by \"hot\" female hosts attest to it. However, with English the preserve of the rich and the magazine priced at a steep Rs 500 ($5.50) the Hello! readership is likely to be small. That said, 15,000 copies of the first issue sold out within a day (local English monthlies struggle to reach figures of 3,000). Perhaps it was the excitement of the first issue, or perhaps it was the grand dames who came out in force to celebrate their own homecoming, whatever the explanation, the arrival of Hello! Pakistan did not go unnoticed.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Magazines", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "World news", "Celebrity", "Life and style"], "title": "Hello! to a more glamorous Pakistan | Moni Mohsin"},{"date": "2012-06-26T08:21:09Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Gunmen opened fire yesterday on the offices of a Pakistani television station, Aaj TV, in Karachi. Two guards were injured.A spokesman for the Tehrik-e-Taliban, a militant Islamist group, claimed responsibility, saying it was angry that it did not receive the same amount of coverage on the station as that given to the government and army. The group also said that the attacks would continue if Aaj TV, a private Urdu-language outlet, did not offer it more coverage. One of the station's anchors, Wajahat Khan, told the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) that Aaj doesn't intend to alter its coverage.Pakistan was ranked as the most dangerous country in the world for journalists in 2010 and 2011, according to CPJ research. Last month, two journalists were killed, two others shot and wounded, and another attacked in police custody.Source: CPJ", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Taliban", "Islam"], "title": "Taliban open fire on Pakistan TV station"},{"date": "2012-06-04T19:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Bouncing around in a plane going through heavy turbulence is never much fun. It's even more nerve-wracking when you're in the night sky above Islamabad airport in an aircraft struggling to find a gap in storm clouds through which to land.In the early hours of 26 May, passengers flying in from Dubai lurched around for nearly three hours above the Pakistani capital. Three times, the pilot started his descent before thinking better of it and yanking his Boeing 777 back to higher altitude. Passengers struggled to concentrate on their inflight movies amid all the shaking and the sound of fellow travellers retching into sick bags. If they weren't feeling nauseous enough, the pilot piped up after the third abandoned descent to explain to the passengers that the \"lights at the airport are not working\". Officials at the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) deny that it is even possible for the landing\u00a0lights to fail at Benazir Bhutto International Airport.But few would be surprised in a country that often seems to be coming apart at the seams. All\u00a0around Pakistan, furious mobs have been rioting over ever worsening power outages. Fixing the problem by collecting outstanding electricity bills is almost impossible given that the government itself is one of the biggest debtors. In April, it emerged that all the CCTV cameras in Lahore's train station were turned off when a bomb exploded in a waiting area. State institutions often appear helpless to tackle\u00a0such\u00a0problems. Or they are too compromised by political considerations in a country gearing up for an election. So, whether or not Islamabad airport really was shrouded in darkness during a night-time storm last month, few board a plane these days with\u00a0complete confidence in the systems intended to\u00a0keep them safe.Islamabad airport has now experienced two\u00a0catastrophic crashes in as many years. On 20\u00a0April, a Boeing 737 operated by Bhoja Air went\u00a0down in a storm as it was approaching to land, scatting debris and body parts over a wide area. It was the revamped airline's maiden flight from Karachi. The tragedy occurred almost two years after another storm during which an Airblue\u00a0flight from Karachi sailed over the buildings that house Pakistan's bureaucrats and smashed into the side of the Margalla Hills, killing\u00a0all\u00a0146\u00a0on board.Then there is the spate of smaller incidents. Days after the Bhoja crash, two tyres on a plane burst during landing in Karachi. On the same day, another jet taking off from Lahore was found to be leaking fuel on to the runway. One former head of the country's air accident investigation board says his officials often caught private airlines taking short cuts. They once found an airline trying to patch up a damaged aircraft wheel at a car tyre puncture-repair shop. The airlines would often appeal against regulators by going to friends\u00a0in the government or in Pakistan's powerful military. \"Sometimes they could get away with things that were less than ideal,\" the\u00a0former official says.That includes lobbying the Civil Aviation Authority for waivers allowing pilots to fly longer\u00a0hours than legally allowed. And many of the elderly planes now look pretty shabby. One flier reports seeing an overhead baggage compartment held closed with duct tape.Bhoja airline first started in 1993 but was closed\u00a0down in 2000 after failing to pay \u00a3620,000 in outstanding dues. The business restarted this year with an ultra-low-cost ticket offering. It leased aircraft from a South African company that\u00a0were more than 30 years old. Such elderly planes, described by one civil aviation official as little better than \"scrap\", come with very high maintenance costs. Despite the old planes and alarming corporate history, officials who have seen the preliminary findings of the official inquiry say the blame has been put squarely on the pilot. The report is said to reveal that the retired air force pilot was very experienced but had not flown any planes for at least a year before\u00a0taking to the skies with Bhoja.\"Our pilots are under much greater stress than someone working for Emirates or Lufthansa because they happen to live in a country called Pakistan,\" said Siraj ul Mulk, a retired pilot himself. \"They can't sleep properly because there is load shedding all night, their neighbours get kidnapped for ransom or burgled. These are the sorts of issues they bring with them into the cockpit.\" But he suspects the issues most on the mind of the unfortunate Bhoja pilot were commercial ones. Ul Mulk worries that the pilot may have been concerned with burning extra fuel if he\u00a0had diverted all the way to Lahore, so he pressed on\u00a0into the storm.Rashid Ali, an academic who teaches avionics at the University of Hertfordshire, says senior aviation officials in Pakistan have told him that two other planes diverted to Lahore that evening\u00a0rather than attempting to land in Islamabad. He wonders if the full\u00a0truth will ever come out. \"But\u00a0in Pakistan it is easier to brush things\u00a0under the carpet and\u00a0just blame the dead\u00a0pilot,\" he\u00a0says.", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Air transport"], "title": "Perilous journeys: aviation in Pakistan | Jon Boone"},{"date": "2012-06-28T07:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"We want to reshape the country's image, develop a progressive brand and outlook,\" claimed 29-year-old Zahraa Saifullah, CEO and publisher of Hello! Pakistan at the glitzy launch of her magazine earlier this year. According to the hype, Hello! Pakistan will be a \"socially responsible and culturally aware family read\". A franchise of the international celebrity magazine (and the first of its kind to be launched in Pakistan) Hello! is seldom associated with such lofty ambitions as the rebranding of a nation of 180 million people. In fact in the 100-odd countries in which it is distributed, Hello! is famous for its gushing interviews and forgiving photographs celebrating the lives of the rich and famous.Yet that Hello! has a market at all in Pakistan is probably surprising to readers in the west where the country is known more for its appetite for jihad than its appetite for glamour. In Pakistan itself reaction to the magazine's arrival reflect the deep divisions within society. Response has ranged from unease and hostility in some quarters, to glee in others. While the liberal fringe is troubled by the magazine's unapologetic celebration of flamboyant consumerism in a society beset by grinding poverty and deep inequalities, religious and social conservatives fulminate at the promotion of western values which they deem anti-Islamic and by extension, anti-state. Meanwhile, the tiny elite that is equally at home on the streets of New York and London as in the bazaars of Lahore and Karachi, is thrilled at the prospect of sharing editorial space with the likes of Sean Penn and Angelina Jolie.Alive to the controversy surrounding the publication of her magazine, Saifullah has tried to counter criticism by espousing virtuous goals. Hence the tall claims, which sit so oddly with the magazine's ethos elsewhere. While Hello! UK is perfectly content devoting lavish double-page spreads to reality TV contestants, Hello! Pakistan, Saifullah insists, will be \"achievement oriented\"; promoting those who \"are doing and have done great things\".Worthy though these claims are, in reality they are often incompatible with the unashamed pursuit of glitz. Those who do\"great things\", whether it be rehabilitation of rape victims or eradication of malaria, are often neither glamorous nor famous. Some candidates, of course, conveniently tick both boxes. The Oscar-winning film director, Sharmeen Obaid Chinoy, is one such celebrity. Well spoken, photogenic and socially responsible (her documentary was about female victims of acid attacks), she featured in the very first issue. But state-sponsored Islamisation over three successive decades has all but decimated the arts, sports and fashion, fields that traditionally produce celebrities in other countries. Pakistan has neither a thriving film industry like India, nor a vibrant sports scene like Argentina, nor an uninterrupted indigenous design tradition like Thailand \u2013 all countries with their own successful franchises of Hello. Little wonder then that Pakistan has a paucity of sporting stars, dazzling actresses and world famous designers to fill page after page of successive issues of Hello.To marry worthiness with bona fide glamour Saifullah will most likely have to fall back on charity circles among the moneyed elites. Enter the grand dames who host lavish fund raising balls in their mansions to raise money for schools for street children and hospitals for the poor. Or perhaps even chatshow hostesses and TV anchors like Mathira and Juggan Kazim who, in the absence of do-gooding Miss Worlds, will have to be both great and glamorous for the Hello! reading public of Pakistan.Yet there is no denying there is a genuine thirst for glamour in Pakistan. The many racy posters of sultry Bollywood actresses adorning every bazaar and the massive viewing figures for chat shows hosted by \"hot\" female hosts attest to it. However, with English the preserve of the rich and the magazine priced at a steep Rs 500 ($5.50) the Hello! readership is likely to be small. That said, 15,000 copies of the first issue sold out within a day (local English monthlies struggle to reach figures of 3,000). Perhaps it was the excitement of the first issue, or perhaps it was the grand dames who came out in force to celebrate their own homecoming, whatever the explanation, the arrival of Hello! Pakistan did not go unnoticed.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Magazines", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "World news", "Celebrity", "Life and style"], "title": "Hello! to a more glamorous Pakistan | Moni Mohsin"},{"date": "2012-06-26T08:21:09Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Gunmen opened fire yesterday on the offices of a Pakistani television station, Aaj TV, in Karachi. Two guards were injured.A spokesman for the Tehrik-e-Taliban, a militant Islamist group, claimed responsibility, saying it was angry that it did not receive the same amount of coverage on the station as that given to the government and army. The group also said that the attacks would continue if Aaj TV, a private Urdu-language outlet, did not offer it more coverage. One of the station's anchors, Wajahat Khan, told the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) that Aaj doesn't intend to alter its coverage.Pakistan was ranked as the most dangerous country in the world for journalists in 2010 and 2011, according to CPJ research. Last month, two journalists were killed, two others shot and wounded, and another attacked in police custody.Source: CPJ", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Taliban", "Islam"], "title": "Taliban open fire on Pakistan TV station"},{"date": "2012-06-18T15:48:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Jino still struggles to accept that an unsafe abortion killed her daughter, Shamin, last year. \"My daughter didn't have to die,\" the 62-year-old mother of ten from Pakistan says quietly. \"I don't know if I can forgive Shamin for her sins, but I also wish she'd given me the chance to help her survive.\"Under Pakistan's law, abortion is only legal to preserve a mother's health. It is a highly taboo subject in the 97% Muslim country, where sex outside of wedlock has been punished by stoning. Shamin was not married when she got pregnant. Rather than face the shame of being a single mother in Pakistan, she secretly sought out an untrained birth attendant who gave Shamin anti-malaria pills to induce an abortion. \"But part of the baby stayed inside \u2013 and my Shimi got an infection,\" says Jino, who works as a maid in the province Punjab. \"That's when she came to me and told me everything. I took her to a clinic but it was too late. She died that same day.\"Shamin's story is common in Pakistan, where, according to estimates by the Guttmacher Institute, 890,000 women have unsafe abortions annually. Eight hundred of these women will die and a further 197,000 will be hospitalised due to complications. \"However even these figures are a gross underestimation, as so many cases go unreported,\" says Nighat Khan from the Guttmacher's research team in Pakistan. \"The problem is that there is no legal cover for these procedures,\" Fauzia Viqar, Head of Advocacy at the Shirkat Gah women's resource centre, condemns the current legal situation. \"Women are told upfront: this is your risk, so if you don't make it, that's your problem.\" Women may take on this risk alone, but the physical price they pay has significant consequences for developing countries as a whole \u2013 where the majority of unsafe abortions are carried out. \"If a woman is in poor health after having an unsafe abortion, she can no longer effectively contribute to a household, and her family has to bear that extra financial burden,\" Khan explains. \"This lack of active participation is a barrier to achieving national development goals and creates an economic burden for the family and, ultimately, the state.\"These profound consequences are why Millennium Development Goal 5 calls for a 75% reduction in maternal mortality and universal access to reproductive health by 2015. Yet this goal is proving hard to achieve. A study published in the Lancet in January 2012 showed that while abortion rates were stable, the proportion of total abortions carried out without trained clinical help rose from 44% to 49% between 1995 and 2008. This paradoxical link between illegalisation and an increase in pregnancy terminations is explained by the fact that countries with restrictive abortion laws tend to invest little in family planning and reproductive health measures \u2013 resulting in higher unwanted pregnancy rates and therefore more surreptitious abortions.Such is the story of Shahnaz. Shahnaz got pregnant after having an affair with a married man. When her mother found out, she beat Shahnaz violently, but agreed to take her then 17-year-old daughter to a birth attendant. Shahnaz recounts the painful experience: \"She inserted a wooden stick into me and told me to keep pushing it back in over the next two days should it come back out.\" The procedure left Shahnaz with permanent uterine scarring, unable to ever have children. To repair the damage to her reputation, Shahnaz was forced to marry a mentally unstable man.\"This is why we feel it is absolutely necessary that safe abortions become recognised as a human right,\" says, Dr Tabinda Sorush, Manager of Reproductive Health and Rights at Shirkat Gah. \"Too often young girls' lives are ruined because of the stigma attached to abortion and premarital sex.\" In 2010, Sorush's team conducted a study to monitor MDG 5 themes in Pakistan. \"Our research showed that even doctors frequently turn away women seeking abortions, because they see these procedures as sinful,\" Sorush says. \"But it is not a question of morality. It is a question of health \u2013and everyone has a right to health.\"Special Rappporteur to the United Nations, Anand Grover, released a statement in 2011 calling for the worldwide legalisation of abortion. He argued that the continued criminalisation of this medical practice has led to a systematic abuse of women's human rights \u2013 including the rights to life, health and equality.Gulalai Ismail, Founder of the Pakistani women's group Aware Girls, thinks this is a step in the right direction, but one that does not go far enough. Together with the Dutch NGO, Women on Waves, Ismail's group launched an abortion hotline in June 2010. The anonymous service was met with violent opposition. \"We received a lot of threats,\" Ismail says. \"Religious extremism is at its peak in this country and abortion is a very sensitive issue. Now we are very careful not to use mainstream media to advertise the hotline, and only use social media instead.\" Every week around 200 women phone the hotline for information about safer abortion methods.Shamin and Shahnaz had also sought a way to help themselves. Yet their efforts to escape stigmatising pregnancies ended up costing Shamin her life and left Shahnaz with irreparable health damage. Theirs are stories that epitomise the dead-end options facing so many women when their only choices are unsafe abortions. \"But realistically speaking it would be a security threat for us to have an open campaign about abortions now,\" Sorush says. Two of her field agents were recently killed researching abortion and family planning in Baluchistan. \"International bodies do not have to worry about their staff's safety like we do,\" Gulalai Ismail agrees. \"But they can put pressure on our government by finally recognising the right to abortion as a human right. Only when that pressure comes from above, by bodies like the UN, as well as from below, by groups like us, can change really happen.\"", "tags": ["International Development Journalism competition", "Development competition"], "title": "When choosing kills \u2013 unsafe abortion in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-06-04T19:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Bouncing around in a plane going through heavy turbulence is never much fun. It's even more nerve-wracking when you're in the night sky above Islamabad airport in an aircraft struggling to find a gap in storm clouds through which to land.In the early hours of 26 May, passengers flying in from Dubai lurched around for nearly three hours above the Pakistani capital. Three times, the pilot started his descent before thinking better of it and yanking his Boeing 777 back to higher altitude. Passengers struggled to concentrate on their inflight movies amid all the shaking and the sound of fellow travellers retching into sick bags. If they weren't feeling nauseous enough, the pilot piped up after the third abandoned descent to explain to the passengers that the \"lights at the airport are not working\". Officials at the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) deny that it is even possible for the landing\u00a0lights to fail at Benazir Bhutto International Airport.But few would be surprised in a country that often seems to be coming apart at the seams. All\u00a0around Pakistan, furious mobs have been rioting over ever worsening power outages. Fixing the problem by collecting outstanding electricity bills is almost impossible given that the government itself is one of the biggest debtors. In April, it emerged that all the CCTV cameras in Lahore's train station were turned off when a bomb exploded in a waiting area. State institutions often appear helpless to tackle\u00a0such\u00a0problems. Or they are too compromised by political considerations in a country gearing up for an election. So, whether or not Islamabad airport really was shrouded in darkness during a night-time storm last month, few board a plane these days with\u00a0complete confidence in the systems intended to\u00a0keep them safe.Islamabad airport has now experienced two\u00a0catastrophic crashes in as many years. On 20\u00a0April, a Boeing 737 operated by Bhoja Air went\u00a0down in a storm as it was approaching to land, scatting debris and body parts over a wide area. It was the revamped airline's maiden flight from Karachi. The tragedy occurred almost two years after another storm during which an Airblue\u00a0flight from Karachi sailed over the buildings that house Pakistan's bureaucrats and smashed into the side of the Margalla Hills, killing\u00a0all\u00a0146\u00a0on board.Then there is the spate of smaller incidents. Days after the Bhoja crash, two tyres on a plane burst during landing in Karachi. On the same day, another jet taking off from Lahore was found to be leaking fuel on to the runway. One former head of the country's air accident investigation board says his officials often caught private airlines taking short cuts. They once found an airline trying to patch up a damaged aircraft wheel at a car tyre puncture-repair shop. The airlines would often appeal against regulators by going to friends\u00a0in the government or in Pakistan's powerful military. \"Sometimes they could get away with things that were less than ideal,\" the\u00a0former official says.That includes lobbying the Civil Aviation Authority for waivers allowing pilots to fly longer\u00a0hours than legally allowed. And many of the elderly planes now look pretty shabby. One flier reports seeing an overhead baggage compartment held closed with duct tape.Bhoja airline first started in 1993 but was closed\u00a0down in 2000 after failing to pay \u00a3620,000 in outstanding dues. The business restarted this year with an ultra-low-cost ticket offering. It leased aircraft from a South African company that\u00a0were more than 30 years old. Such elderly planes, described by one civil aviation official as little better than \"scrap\", come with very high maintenance costs. Despite the old planes and alarming corporate history, officials who have seen the preliminary findings of the official inquiry say the blame has been put squarely on the pilot. The report is said to reveal that the retired air force pilot was very experienced but had not flown any planes for at least a year before\u00a0taking to the skies with Bhoja.\"Our pilots are under much greater stress than someone working for Emirates or Lufthansa because they happen to live in a country called Pakistan,\" said Siraj ul Mulk, a retired pilot himself. \"They can't sleep properly because there is load shedding all night, their neighbours get kidnapped for ransom or burgled. These are the sorts of issues they bring with them into the cockpit.\" But he suspects the issues most on the mind of the unfortunate Bhoja pilot were commercial ones. Ul Mulk worries that the pilot may have been concerned with burning extra fuel if he\u00a0had diverted all the way to Lahore, so he pressed on\u00a0into the storm.Rashid Ali, an academic who teaches avionics at the University of Hertfordshire, says senior aviation officials in Pakistan have told him that two other planes diverted to Lahore that evening\u00a0rather than attempting to land in Islamabad. He wonders if the full\u00a0truth will ever come out. \"But\u00a0in Pakistan it is easier to brush things\u00a0under the carpet and\u00a0just blame the dead\u00a0pilot,\" he\u00a0says.", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Air transport"], "title": "Perilous journeys: aviation in Pakistan | Jon Boone"},{"date": "2012-06-28T07:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"We want to reshape the country's image, develop a progressive brand and outlook,\" claimed 29-year-old Zahraa Saifullah, CEO and publisher of Hello! Pakistan at the glitzy launch of her magazine earlier this year. According to the hype, Hello! Pakistan will be a \"socially responsible and culturally aware family read\". A franchise of the international celebrity magazine (and the first of its kind to be launched in Pakistan) Hello! is seldom associated with such lofty ambitions as the rebranding of a nation of 180 million people. In fact in the 100-odd countries in which it is distributed, Hello! is famous for its gushing interviews and forgiving photographs celebrating the lives of the rich and famous.Yet that Hello! has a market at all in Pakistan is probably surprising to readers in the west where the country is known more for its appetite for jihad than its appetite for glamour. In Pakistan itself reaction to the magazine's arrival reflect the deep divisions within society. Response has ranged from unease and hostility in some quarters, to glee in others. While the liberal fringe is troubled by the magazine's unapologetic celebration of flamboyant consumerism in a society beset by grinding poverty and deep inequalities, religious and social conservatives fulminate at the promotion of western values which they deem anti-Islamic and by extension, anti-state. Meanwhile, the tiny elite that is equally at home on the streets of New York and London as in the bazaars of Lahore and Karachi, is thrilled at the prospect of sharing editorial space with the likes of Sean Penn and Angelina Jolie.Alive to the controversy surrounding the publication of her magazine, Saifullah has tried to counter criticism by espousing virtuous goals. Hence the tall claims, which sit so oddly with the magazine's ethos elsewhere. While Hello! UK is perfectly content devoting lavish double-page spreads to reality TV contestants, Hello! Pakistan, Saifullah insists, will be \"achievement oriented\"; promoting those who \"are doing and have done great things\".Worthy though these claims are, in reality they are often incompatible with the unashamed pursuit of glitz. Those who do\"great things\", whether it be rehabilitation of rape victims or eradication of malaria, are often neither glamorous nor famous. Some candidates, of course, conveniently tick both boxes. The Oscar-winning film director, Sharmeen Obaid Chinoy, is one such celebrity. Well spoken, photogenic and socially responsible (her documentary was about female victims of acid attacks), she featured in the very first issue. But state-sponsored Islamisation over three successive decades has all but decimated the arts, sports and fashion, fields that traditionally produce celebrities in other countries. Pakistan has neither a thriving film industry like India, nor a vibrant sports scene like Argentina, nor an uninterrupted indigenous design tradition like Thailand \u2013 all countries with their own successful franchises of Hello. Little wonder then that Pakistan has a paucity of sporting stars, dazzling actresses and world famous designers to fill page after page of successive issues of Hello.To marry worthiness with bona fide glamour Saifullah will most likely have to fall back on charity circles among the moneyed elites. Enter the grand dames who host lavish fund raising balls in their mansions to raise money for schools for street children and hospitals for the poor. Or perhaps even chatshow hostesses and TV anchors like Mathira and Juggan Kazim who, in the absence of do-gooding Miss Worlds, will have to be both great and glamorous for the Hello! reading public of Pakistan.Yet there is no denying there is a genuine thirst for glamour in Pakistan. The many racy posters of sultry Bollywood actresses adorning every bazaar and the massive viewing figures for chat shows hosted by \"hot\" female hosts attest to it. However, with English the preserve of the rich and the magazine priced at a steep Rs 500 ($5.50) the Hello! readership is likely to be small. That said, 15,000 copies of the first issue sold out within a day (local English monthlies struggle to reach figures of 3,000). Perhaps it was the excitement of the first issue, or perhaps it was the grand dames who came out in force to celebrate their own homecoming, whatever the explanation, the arrival of Hello! Pakistan did not go unnoticed.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Magazines", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "World news", "Celebrity", "Life and style"], "title": "Hello! to a more glamorous Pakistan | Moni Mohsin"},{"date": "2012-06-26T08:21:09Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Gunmen opened fire yesterday on the offices of a Pakistani television station, Aaj TV, in Karachi. Two guards were injured.A spokesman for the Tehrik-e-Taliban, a militant Islamist group, claimed responsibility, saying it was angry that it did not receive the same amount of coverage on the station as that given to the government and army. The group also said that the attacks would continue if Aaj TV, a private Urdu-language outlet, did not offer it more coverage. One of the station's anchors, Wajahat Khan, told the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) that Aaj doesn't intend to alter its coverage.Pakistan was ranked as the most dangerous country in the world for journalists in 2010 and 2011, according to CPJ research. Last month, two journalists were killed, two others shot and wounded, and another attacked in police custody.Source: CPJ", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Taliban", "Islam"], "title": "Taliban open fire on Pakistan TV station"},{"date": "2012-06-18T15:48:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Jino still struggles to accept that an unsafe abortion killed her daughter, Shamin, last year. \"My daughter didn't have to die,\" the 62-year-old mother of ten from Pakistan says quietly. \"I don't know if I can forgive Shamin for her sins, but I also wish she'd given me the chance to help her survive.\"Under Pakistan's law, abortion is only legal to preserve a mother's health. It is a highly taboo subject in the 97% Muslim country, where sex outside of wedlock has been punished by stoning. Shamin was not married when she got pregnant. Rather than face the shame of being a single mother in Pakistan, she secretly sought out an untrained birth attendant who gave Shamin anti-malaria pills to induce an abortion. \"But part of the baby stayed inside \u2013 and my Shimi got an infection,\" says Jino, who works as a maid in the province Punjab. \"That's when she came to me and told me everything. I took her to a clinic but it was too late. She died that same day.\"Shamin's story is common in Pakistan, where, according to estimates by the Guttmacher Institute, 890,000 women have unsafe abortions annually. Eight hundred of these women will die and a further 197,000 will be hospitalised due to complications. \"However even these figures are a gross underestimation, as so many cases go unreported,\" says Nighat Khan from the Guttmacher's research team in Pakistan. \"The problem is that there is no legal cover for these procedures,\" Fauzia Viqar, Head of Advocacy at the Shirkat Gah women's resource centre, condemns the current legal situation. \"Women are told upfront: this is your risk, so if you don't make it, that's your problem.\" Women may take on this risk alone, but the physical price they pay has significant consequences for developing countries as a whole \u2013 where the majority of unsafe abortions are carried out. \"If a woman is in poor health after having an unsafe abortion, she can no longer effectively contribute to a household, and her family has to bear that extra financial burden,\" Khan explains. \"This lack of active participation is a barrier to achieving national development goals and creates an economic burden for the family and, ultimately, the state.\"These profound consequences are why Millennium Development Goal 5 calls for a 75% reduction in maternal mortality and universal access to reproductive health by 2015. Yet this goal is proving hard to achieve. A study published in the Lancet in January 2012 showed that while abortion rates were stable, the proportion of total abortions carried out without trained clinical help rose from 44% to 49% between 1995 and 2008. This paradoxical link between illegalisation and an increase in pregnancy terminations is explained by the fact that countries with restrictive abortion laws tend to invest little in family planning and reproductive health measures \u2013 resulting in higher unwanted pregnancy rates and therefore more surreptitious abortions.Such is the story of Shahnaz. Shahnaz got pregnant after having an affair with a married man. When her mother found out, she beat Shahnaz violently, but agreed to take her then 17-year-old daughter to a birth attendant. Shahnaz recounts the painful experience: \"She inserted a wooden stick into me and told me to keep pushing it back in over the next two days should it come back out.\" The procedure left Shahnaz with permanent uterine scarring, unable to ever have children. To repair the damage to her reputation, Shahnaz was forced to marry a mentally unstable man.\"This is why we feel it is absolutely necessary that safe abortions become recognised as a human right,\" says, Dr Tabinda Sorush, Manager of Reproductive Health and Rights at Shirkat Gah. \"Too often young girls' lives are ruined because of the stigma attached to abortion and premarital sex.\" In 2010, Sorush's team conducted a study to monitor MDG 5 themes in Pakistan. \"Our research showed that even doctors frequently turn away women seeking abortions, because they see these procedures as sinful,\" Sorush says. \"But it is not a question of morality. It is a question of health \u2013and everyone has a right to health.\"Special Rappporteur to the United Nations, Anand Grover, released a statement in 2011 calling for the worldwide legalisation of abortion. He argued that the continued criminalisation of this medical practice has led to a systematic abuse of women's human rights \u2013 including the rights to life, health and equality.Gulalai Ismail, Founder of the Pakistani women's group Aware Girls, thinks this is a step in the right direction, but one that does not go far enough. Together with the Dutch NGO, Women on Waves, Ismail's group launched an abortion hotline in June 2010. The anonymous service was met with violent opposition. \"We received a lot of threats,\" Ismail says. \"Religious extremism is at its peak in this country and abortion is a very sensitive issue. Now we are very careful not to use mainstream media to advertise the hotline, and only use social media instead.\" Every week around 200 women phone the hotline for information about safer abortion methods.Shamin and Shahnaz had also sought a way to help themselves. Yet their efforts to escape stigmatising pregnancies ended up costing Shamin her life and left Shahnaz with irreparable health damage. Theirs are stories that epitomise the dead-end options facing so many women when their only choices are unsafe abortions. \"But realistically speaking it would be a security threat for us to have an open campaign about abortions now,\" Sorush says. Two of her field agents were recently killed researching abortion and family planning in Baluchistan. \"International bodies do not have to worry about their staff's safety like we do,\" Gulalai Ismail agrees. \"But they can put pressure on our government by finally recognising the right to abortion as a human right. Only when that pressure comes from above, by bodies like the UN, as well as from below, by groups like us, can change really happen.\"", "tags": ["International Development Journalism competition", "Development competition"], "title": "When choosing kills \u2013 unsafe abortion in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-06-05T21:50:34Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Thomas Aquinas, Augustine and John Brennan \u2013 two saints and a counter-terrorism adviser \u2013 may give the counsel a president feels he needs before adding another al-Qaida suspect to his kill list. But whatever else these authorities do, they do not constitute due process \u2013 and Barack Obama's administration knows it. It is doing everything it can to avoid scrutiny. It is refusing to publish its standards for putting people on terrorist or assassination lists. What are the target limits? When is a last resort truly a last resort, particularly in areas well back from recognised battlefields? And who is providing independent oversight? Professor Obama, the constitutional lawyer who campaigned against the Iraq war and the Bush administration's elastic definitions of torture, would have had a field day cross-examining in court his older and wiser self as president \u2013 a man who shuffles through candidates for summary execution by drone strike on a pile of baseball cards. Or would he?Aaron David Miller, a Middle East adviser to both Republican and Democrat administrations, does not think so. He wrote that there were no substantive differences between Mr Obama and Mitt Romney on foreign policy, other than the president's having a harsher view of Binyamin Netanyahu and a less hawkish one on Vladimir Putin. The rhetoric may have gone out of the war on terror, but as far as the actions themselves go, Mr Obama was, in Miller's view, George W Bush on steroids. This may be harsh, but it is not ill-informed.From the very first days of his presidency, Mr Obama's training as a lawyer was put to use not in abolishing the worst practices of the Bush era, but in giving himself the wriggle room to preserve and in some cases expand them. Thus the three major policies of the Bush war on terror \u2013 rendition, military commissions and indefinite detention \u2013 continue to this day. But Mr Obama has also presided over a massive expansion of secret surveillance of American citizens by the National Security Agency. There is a ferocious crackdown on whistleblowers. He has made more government documents classified than any previous president. And he has become a true believer in drones.There are at least two concerns about the gathering pace of drone strikes, Mr Obama's weapon of choice against militants sheltering in remote parts of the world \u2013 Waziristan, Yemen, or Somalia. The first is that at a crucial juncture of an election campaign \u2013 when a clear Republican opponent has emerged from the swamp of the party's selection process \u2013 this administration is highlighting the fact that its president is a killer. In this new age of secrecy, three dozen current and former advisers are allowed to talk to the New York Times about the president's role of personally overseeing the shadow war with al-Qaida. Mr Obama has not been shy about the role he personally played in Osama bin Laden's death. His counter-terrorism adviser John Brennan makes speeches defending drone strikes as legal, ethical and wise. This administration is not on the defensive about its summary executions. It positively seeks to advertise them.The second is that words are swiftly followed by actions. Drone strikes, which were in abeyance before the failure of Nato's Chicago summit to break the deadlock with Pakistan over reopening military supply lines to Afghanistan, have returned with a vengeance \u2013 three attacks in as many days, and 29 people dead. Are they justified if, as the US claimed on Tuesday, al-Qaida's second in command, Abu Yahya al-Libi, is among the victims? Or do inhabitants of North Waziristan have a point when they say the strikes are pulling their province apart. Many people have moved to escape the drones, and anyone who stays lives in terror of being killed. Indeed being a male of fighting age has become a posthumous criterion for being regarded as a terrorist. All this poses questions for a pragmatist like Mr Obama. When and where does this stop? Libi will be surely be replaced. Or have drones become a permanent feature of US power?", "tags": ["Drones (military)", "Obama administration", "Barack Obama", "US foreign policy", "US national security", "Pakistan", "World news", "US news", "US politics"], "title": "Drone strikes: playing God in Pakistan | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-06-04T19:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Bouncing around in a plane going through heavy turbulence is never much fun. It's even more nerve-wracking when you're in the night sky above Islamabad airport in an aircraft struggling to find a gap in storm clouds through which to land.In the early hours of 26 May, passengers flying in from Dubai lurched around for nearly three hours above the Pakistani capital. Three times, the pilot started his descent before thinking better of it and yanking his Boeing 777 back to higher altitude. Passengers struggled to concentrate on their inflight movies amid all the shaking and the sound of fellow travellers retching into sick bags. If they weren't feeling nauseous enough, the pilot piped up after the third abandoned descent to explain to the passengers that the \"lights at the airport are not working\". Officials at the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) deny that it is even possible for the landing\u00a0lights to fail at Benazir Bhutto International Airport.But few would be surprised in a country that often seems to be coming apart at the seams. All\u00a0around Pakistan, furious mobs have been rioting over ever worsening power outages. Fixing the problem by collecting outstanding electricity bills is almost impossible given that the government itself is one of the biggest debtors. In April, it emerged that all the CCTV cameras in Lahore's train station were turned off when a bomb exploded in a waiting area. State institutions often appear helpless to tackle\u00a0such\u00a0problems. Or they are too compromised by political considerations in a country gearing up for an election. So, whether or not Islamabad airport really was shrouded in darkness during a night-time storm last month, few board a plane these days with\u00a0complete confidence in the systems intended to\u00a0keep them safe.Islamabad airport has now experienced two\u00a0catastrophic crashes in as many years. On 20\u00a0April, a Boeing 737 operated by Bhoja Air went\u00a0down in a storm as it was approaching to land, scatting debris and body parts over a wide area. It was the revamped airline's maiden flight from Karachi. The tragedy occurred almost two years after another storm during which an Airblue\u00a0flight from Karachi sailed over the buildings that house Pakistan's bureaucrats and smashed into the side of the Margalla Hills, killing\u00a0all\u00a0146\u00a0on board.Then there is the spate of smaller incidents. Days after the Bhoja crash, two tyres on a plane burst during landing in Karachi. On the same day, another jet taking off from Lahore was found to be leaking fuel on to the runway. One former head of the country's air accident investigation board says his officials often caught private airlines taking short cuts. They once found an airline trying to patch up a damaged aircraft wheel at a car tyre puncture-repair shop. The airlines would often appeal against regulators by going to friends\u00a0in the government or in Pakistan's powerful military. \"Sometimes they could get away with things that were less than ideal,\" the\u00a0former official says.That includes lobbying the Civil Aviation Authority for waivers allowing pilots to fly longer\u00a0hours than legally allowed. And many of the elderly planes now look pretty shabby. One flier reports seeing an overhead baggage compartment held closed with duct tape.Bhoja airline first started in 1993 but was closed\u00a0down in 2000 after failing to pay \u00a3620,000 in outstanding dues. The business restarted this year with an ultra-low-cost ticket offering. It leased aircraft from a South African company that\u00a0were more than 30 years old. Such elderly planes, described by one civil aviation official as little better than \"scrap\", come with very high maintenance costs. Despite the old planes and alarming corporate history, officials who have seen the preliminary findings of the official inquiry say the blame has been put squarely on the pilot. The report is said to reveal that the retired air force pilot was very experienced but had not flown any planes for at least a year before\u00a0taking to the skies with Bhoja.\"Our pilots are under much greater stress than someone working for Emirates or Lufthansa because they happen to live in a country called Pakistan,\" said Siraj ul Mulk, a retired pilot himself. \"They can't sleep properly because there is load shedding all night, their neighbours get kidnapped for ransom or burgled. These are the sorts of issues they bring with them into the cockpit.\" But he suspects the issues most on the mind of the unfortunate Bhoja pilot were commercial ones. Ul Mulk worries that the pilot may have been concerned with burning extra fuel if he\u00a0had diverted all the way to Lahore, so he pressed on\u00a0into the storm.Rashid Ali, an academic who teaches avionics at the University of Hertfordshire, says senior aviation officials in Pakistan have told him that two other planes diverted to Lahore that evening\u00a0rather than attempting to land in Islamabad. He wonders if the full\u00a0truth will ever come out. \"But\u00a0in Pakistan it is easier to brush things\u00a0under the carpet and\u00a0just blame the dead\u00a0pilot,\" he\u00a0says.", "tags": ["World news", "Pakistan", "Air transport"], "title": "Perilous journeys: aviation in Pakistan | Jon Boone"},{"date": "2012-06-28T07:30:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\"We want to reshape the country's image, develop a progressive brand and outlook,\" claimed 29-year-old Zahraa Saifullah, CEO and publisher of Hello! Pakistan at the glitzy launch of her magazine earlier this year. According to the hype, Hello! Pakistan will be a \"socially responsible and culturally aware family read\". A franchise of the international celebrity magazine (and the first of its kind to be launched in Pakistan) Hello! is seldom associated with such lofty ambitions as the rebranding of a nation of 180 million people. In fact in the 100-odd countries in which it is distributed, Hello! is famous for its gushing interviews and forgiving photographs celebrating the lives of the rich and famous.Yet that Hello! has a market at all in Pakistan is probably surprising to readers in the west where the country is known more for its appetite for jihad than its appetite for glamour. In Pakistan itself reaction to the magazine's arrival reflect the deep divisions within society. Response has ranged from unease and hostility in some quarters, to glee in others. While the liberal fringe is troubled by the magazine's unapologetic celebration of flamboyant consumerism in a society beset by grinding poverty and deep inequalities, religious and social conservatives fulminate at the promotion of western values which they deem anti-Islamic and by extension, anti-state. Meanwhile, the tiny elite that is equally at home on the streets of New York and London as in the bazaars of Lahore and Karachi, is thrilled at the prospect of sharing editorial space with the likes of Sean Penn and Angelina Jolie.Alive to the controversy surrounding the publication of her magazine, Saifullah has tried to counter criticism by espousing virtuous goals. Hence the tall claims, which sit so oddly with the magazine's ethos elsewhere. While Hello! UK is perfectly content devoting lavish double-page spreads to reality TV contestants, Hello! Pakistan, Saifullah insists, will be \"achievement oriented\"; promoting those who \"are doing and have done great things\".Worthy though these claims are, in reality they are often incompatible with the unashamed pursuit of glitz. Those who do\"great things\", whether it be rehabilitation of rape victims or eradication of malaria, are often neither glamorous nor famous. Some candidates, of course, conveniently tick both boxes. The Oscar-winning film director, Sharmeen Obaid Chinoy, is one such celebrity. Well spoken, photogenic and socially responsible (her documentary was about female victims of acid attacks), she featured in the very first issue. But state-sponsored Islamisation over three successive decades has all but decimated the arts, sports and fashion, fields that traditionally produce celebrities in other countries. Pakistan has neither a thriving film industry like India, nor a vibrant sports scene like Argentina, nor an uninterrupted indigenous design tradition like Thailand \u2013 all countries with their own successful franchises of Hello. Little wonder then that Pakistan has a paucity of sporting stars, dazzling actresses and world famous designers to fill page after page of successive issues of Hello.To marry worthiness with bona fide glamour Saifullah will most likely have to fall back on charity circles among the moneyed elites. Enter the grand dames who host lavish fund raising balls in their mansions to raise money for schools for street children and hospitals for the poor. Or perhaps even chatshow hostesses and TV anchors like Mathira and Juggan Kazim who, in the absence of do-gooding Miss Worlds, will have to be both great and glamorous for the Hello! reading public of Pakistan.Yet there is no denying there is a genuine thirst for glamour in Pakistan. The many racy posters of sultry Bollywood actresses adorning every bazaar and the massive viewing figures for chat shows hosted by \"hot\" female hosts attest to it. However, with English the preserve of the rich and the magazine priced at a steep Rs 500 ($5.50) the Hello! readership is likely to be small. That said, 15,000 copies of the first issue sold out within a day (local English monthlies struggle to reach figures of 3,000). Perhaps it was the excitement of the first issue, or perhaps it was the grand dames who came out in force to celebrate their own homecoming, whatever the explanation, the arrival of Hello! Pakistan did not go unnoticed.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Magazines", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "World news", "Celebrity", "Life and style"], "title": "Hello! to a more glamorous Pakistan | Moni Mohsin"},{"date": "2012-06-26T08:21:09Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Gunmen opened fire yesterday on the offices of a Pakistani television station, Aaj TV, in Karachi. Two guards were injured.A spokesman for the Tehrik-e-Taliban, a militant Islamist group, claimed responsibility, saying it was angry that it did not receive the same amount of coverage on the station as that given to the government and army. The group also said that the attacks would continue if Aaj TV, a private Urdu-language outlet, did not offer it more coverage. One of the station's anchors, Wajahat Khan, told the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) that Aaj doesn't intend to alter its coverage.Pakistan was ranked as the most dangerous country in the world for journalists in 2010 and 2011, according to CPJ research. Last month, two journalists were killed, two others shot and wounded, and another attacked in police custody.Source: CPJ", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Taliban", "Islam"], "title": "Taliban open fire on Pakistan TV station"},{"date": "2012-06-18T15:48:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Jino still struggles to accept that an unsafe abortion killed her daughter, Shamin, last year. \"My daughter didn't have to die,\" the 62-year-old mother of ten from Pakistan says quietly. \"I don't know if I can forgive Shamin for her sins, but I also wish she'd given me the chance to help her survive.\"Under Pakistan's law, abortion is only legal to preserve a mother's health. It is a highly taboo subject in the 97% Muslim country, where sex outside of wedlock has been punished by stoning. Shamin was not married when she got pregnant. Rather than face the shame of being a single mother in Pakistan, she secretly sought out an untrained birth attendant who gave Shamin anti-malaria pills to induce an abortion. \"But part of the baby stayed inside \u2013 and my Shimi got an infection,\" says Jino, who works as a maid in the province Punjab. \"That's when she came to me and told me everything. I took her to a clinic but it was too late. She died that same day.\"Shamin's story is common in Pakistan, where, according to estimates by the Guttmacher Institute, 890,000 women have unsafe abortions annually. Eight hundred of these women will die and a further 197,000 will be hospitalised due to complications. \"However even these figures are a gross underestimation, as so many cases go unreported,\" says Nighat Khan from the Guttmacher's research team in Pakistan. \"The problem is that there is no legal cover for these procedures,\" Fauzia Viqar, Head of Advocacy at the Shirkat Gah women's resource centre, condemns the current legal situation. \"Women are told upfront: this is your risk, so if you don't make it, that's your problem.\" Women may take on this risk alone, but the physical price they pay has significant consequences for developing countries as a whole \u2013 where the majority of unsafe abortions are carried out. \"If a woman is in poor health after having an unsafe abortion, she can no longer effectively contribute to a household, and her family has to bear that extra financial burden,\" Khan explains. \"This lack of active participation is a barrier to achieving national development goals and creates an economic burden for the family and, ultimately, the state.\"These profound consequences are why Millennium Development Goal 5 calls for a 75% reduction in maternal mortality and universal access to reproductive health by 2015. Yet this goal is proving hard to achieve. A study published in the Lancet in January 2012 showed that while abortion rates were stable, the proportion of total abortions carried out without trained clinical help rose from 44% to 49% between 1995 and 2008. This paradoxical link between illegalisation and an increase in pregnancy terminations is explained by the fact that countries with restrictive abortion laws tend to invest little in family planning and reproductive health measures \u2013 resulting in higher unwanted pregnancy rates and therefore more surreptitious abortions.Such is the story of Shahnaz. Shahnaz got pregnant after having an affair with a married man. When her mother found out, she beat Shahnaz violently, but agreed to take her then 17-year-old daughter to a birth attendant. Shahnaz recounts the painful experience: \"She inserted a wooden stick into me and told me to keep pushing it back in over the next two days should it come back out.\" The procedure left Shahnaz with permanent uterine scarring, unable to ever have children. To repair the damage to her reputation, Shahnaz was forced to marry a mentally unstable man.\"This is why we feel it is absolutely necessary that safe abortions become recognised as a human right,\" says, Dr Tabinda Sorush, Manager of Reproductive Health and Rights at Shirkat Gah. \"Too often young girls' lives are ruined because of the stigma attached to abortion and premarital sex.\" In 2010, Sorush's team conducted a study to monitor MDG 5 themes in Pakistan. \"Our research showed that even doctors frequently turn away women seeking abortions, because they see these procedures as sinful,\" Sorush says. \"But it is not a question of morality. It is a question of health \u2013and everyone has a right to health.\"Special Rappporteur to the United Nations, Anand Grover, released a statement in 2011 calling for the worldwide legalisation of abortion. He argued that the continued criminalisation of this medical practice has led to a systematic abuse of women's human rights \u2013 including the rights to life, health and equality.Gulalai Ismail, Founder of the Pakistani women's group Aware Girls, thinks this is a step in the right direction, but one that does not go far enough. Together with the Dutch NGO, Women on Waves, Ismail's group launched an abortion hotline in June 2010. The anonymous service was met with violent opposition. \"We received a lot of threats,\" Ismail says. \"Religious extremism is at its peak in this country and abortion is a very sensitive issue. Now we are very careful not to use mainstream media to advertise the hotline, and only use social media instead.\" Every week around 200 women phone the hotline for information about safer abortion methods.Shamin and Shahnaz had also sought a way to help themselves. Yet their efforts to escape stigmatising pregnancies ended up costing Shamin her life and left Shahnaz with irreparable health damage. Theirs are stories that epitomise the dead-end options facing so many women when their only choices are unsafe abortions. \"But realistically speaking it would be a security threat for us to have an open campaign about abortions now,\" Sorush says. Two of her field agents were recently killed researching abortion and family planning in Baluchistan. \"International bodies do not have to worry about their staff's safety like we do,\" Gulalai Ismail agrees. \"But they can put pressure on our government by finally recognising the right to abortion as a human right. Only when that pressure comes from above, by bodies like the UN, as well as from below, by groups like us, can change really happen.\"", "tags": ["International Development Journalism competition", "Development competition"], "title": "When choosing kills \u2013 unsafe abortion in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-06-05T21:50:34Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Thomas Aquinas, Augustine and John Brennan \u2013 two saints and a counter-terrorism adviser \u2013 may give the counsel a president feels he needs before adding another al-Qaida suspect to his kill list. But whatever else these authorities do, they do not constitute due process \u2013 and Barack Obama's administration knows it. It is doing everything it can to avoid scrutiny. It is refusing to publish its standards for putting people on terrorist or assassination lists. What are the target limits? When is a last resort truly a last resort, particularly in areas well back from recognised battlefields? And who is providing independent oversight? Professor Obama, the constitutional lawyer who campaigned against the Iraq war and the Bush administration's elastic definitions of torture, would have had a field day cross-examining in court his older and wiser self as president \u2013 a man who shuffles through candidates for summary execution by drone strike on a pile of baseball cards. Or would he?Aaron David Miller, a Middle East adviser to both Republican and Democrat administrations, does not think so. He wrote that there were no substantive differences between Mr Obama and Mitt Romney on foreign policy, other than the president's having a harsher view of Binyamin Netanyahu and a less hawkish one on Vladimir Putin. The rhetoric may have gone out of the war on terror, but as far as the actions themselves go, Mr Obama was, in Miller's view, George W Bush on steroids. This may be harsh, but it is not ill-informed.From the very first days of his presidency, Mr Obama's training as a lawyer was put to use not in abolishing the worst practices of the Bush era, but in giving himself the wriggle room to preserve and in some cases expand them. Thus the three major policies of the Bush war on terror \u2013 rendition, military commissions and indefinite detention \u2013 continue to this day. But Mr Obama has also presided over a massive expansion of secret surveillance of American citizens by the National Security Agency. There is a ferocious crackdown on whistleblowers. He has made more government documents classified than any previous president. And he has become a true believer in drones.There are at least two concerns about the gathering pace of drone strikes, Mr Obama's weapon of choice against militants sheltering in remote parts of the world \u2013 Waziristan, Yemen, or Somalia. The first is that at a crucial juncture of an election campaign \u2013 when a clear Republican opponent has emerged from the swamp of the party's selection process \u2013 this administration is highlighting the fact that its president is a killer. In this new age of secrecy, three dozen current and former advisers are allowed to talk to the New York Times about the president's role of personally overseeing the shadow war with al-Qaida. Mr Obama has not been shy about the role he personally played in Osama bin Laden's death. His counter-terrorism adviser John Brennan makes speeches defending drone strikes as legal, ethical and wise. This administration is not on the defensive about its summary executions. It positively seeks to advertise them.The second is that words are swiftly followed by actions. Drone strikes, which were in abeyance before the failure of Nato's Chicago summit to break the deadlock with Pakistan over reopening military supply lines to Afghanistan, have returned with a vengeance \u2013 three attacks in as many days, and 29 people dead. Are they justified if, as the US claimed on Tuesday, al-Qaida's second in command, Abu Yahya al-Libi, is among the victims? Or do inhabitants of North Waziristan have a point when they say the strikes are pulling their province apart. Many people have moved to escape the drones, and anyone who stays lives in terror of being killed. Indeed being a male of fighting age has become a posthumous criterion for being regarded as a terrorist. All this poses questions for a pragmatist like Mr Obama. When and where does this stop? Libi will be surely be replaced. Or have drones become a permanent feature of US power?", "tags": ["Drones (military)", "Obama administration", "Barack Obama", "US foreign policy", "US national security", "Pakistan", "World news", "US news", "US politics"], "title": "Drone strikes: playing God in Pakistan | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-05-30T16:24:50Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Jino still struggles to accept that an unsafe abortion killed her daughter, Shamin, last year. \"My daughter didn't have to die,\" the 62-year-old mother of ten from Pakistan says quietly. \"I don't know if I can forgive Shamin for her sins, but I also wish she'd given me the chance to help her survive.\"Under Pakistan's law, abortion is only legal to preserve a mother's health. It is a highly taboo subject in the 97% Muslim country, where sex outside of wedlock has been punished by stoning. Shamin was not married when she got pregnant. Rather than face the shame of being a single mother in Pakistan, she secretly sought out an untrained birth attendant who gave Shamin anti-malaria pills to induce an abortion. \"But part of the baby stayed inside \u2013 and my Shimi got an infection,\" says Jino, who works as a maid in the province Punjab. \"That's when she came to me and told me everything. I took her to a clinic but it was too late. She died that same day.\"Shamin's story is common in Pakistan, where, according to estimates by the Guttmacher Institute, 890,000 women have unsafe abortions annually. Eight hundred of these women will die and a further 197,000 will be hospitalised due to complications. \"However even these figures are a gross underestimation, as so many cases go unreported,\" says Nighat Khan from the Guttmacher's research team in Pakistan. \"The problem is that there is no legal cover for these procedures,\" Fauzia Viqar, Head of Advocacy at the Shirkat Gah women's resource centre, condemns the current legal situation. \"Women are told upfront: this is your risk, so if you don't make it, that's your problem.\" Women may take on this risk alone, but the physical price they pay has significant consequences for developing countries as a whole \u2013 where the majority of unsafe abortions are carried out. \"If a woman is in poor health after having an unsafe abortion, she can no longer effectively contribute to a household, and her family has to bear that extra financial burden,\" Khan explains. \"This lack of active participation is a barrier to achieving national development goals and creates an economic burden for the family and, ultimately, the state.\"These profound consequences are why Millennium Development Goal 5 calls for a 75% reduction in maternal mortality and universal access to reproductive health by 2015. Yet this goal is proving hard to achieve. A study published in the Lancet in January 2012 showed that while abortion rates were stable, the proportion of total abortions carried out without trained clinical help rose from 44% to 49% between 1995 and 2008. This paradoxical link between illegalisation and an increase in pregnancy terminations is explained by the fact that countries with restrictive abortion laws tend to invest little in family planning and reproductive health measures \u2013 resulting in higher unwanted pregnancy rates and therefore more surreptitious abortions.Such is the story of Shahnaz. Shahnaz got pregnant after having an affair with a married man. When her mother found out, she beat Shahnaz violently, but agreed to take her then 17-year-old daughter to a birth attendant. Shahnaz recounts the painful experience: \"She inserted a wooden stick into me and told me to keep pushing it back in over the next two days should it come back out.\" The procedure left Shahnaz with permanent uterine scarring, unable to ever have children. To repair the damage to her reputation, Shahnaz was forced to marry a mentally unstable man.\"This is why we feel it is absolutely necessary that safe abortions become recognised as a human right,\" says, Dr Tabinda Sorush, Manager of Reproductive Health and Rights at Shirkat Gah. \"Too often young girls' lives are ruined because of the stigma attached to abortion and premarital sex.\" In 2010, Sorush's team conducted a study to monitor MDG 5 themes in Pakistan. \"Our research showed that even doctors frequently turn away women seeking abortions, because they see these procedures as sinful,\" Sorush says. \"But it is not a question of morality. It is a question of health \u2013and everyone has a right to health.\"Special Rappporteur to the United Nations, Anand Grover, released a statement in 2011 calling for the worldwide legalisation of abortion. He argued that the continued criminalisation of this medical practice has led to a systematic abuse of women's human rights \u2013 including the rights to life, health and equality. Gulalai Ismail, Founder of the Pakistani women's group Aware Girls, thinks this is a step in the right direction, but one that does not go far enough. Together with the Dutch NGO, Women on Waves, Ismail's group launched an abortion hotline in June 2010. The anonymous service was met with violent opposition. \"We received a lot of threats,\" Ismail says. \"Religious extremism is at its peak in this country and abortion is a very sensitive issue. Now we are very careful not to use mainstream media to advertise the hotline, and only use social media instead.\" Every week around 200 women phone the hotline for information about safer abortion methods.Shamin and Shahnaz had also sought a way to help themselves. Yet their efforts to escape stigmatising pregnancies ended up costing Shamin her life and left Shahnaz with irreparable health damage. Theirs are stories that epitomise the dead-end options facing so many women when their only choices are unsafe abortions. \"But realistically speaking it would be a security threat for us to have an open campaign about abortions now,\" Sorush says. Two of her field agents were recently killed researching abortion and family planning in Baluchistan. \"International bodies do not have to worry about their staff's safety like we do,\" Gulalai Ismail agrees. \"But they can put pressure on our government by finally recognising the right to abortion as a human right. Only when that pressure comes from above, by bodies like the UN, as well as from below, by groups like us, can change really happen.\"", "tags": ["Professional longlist 2012"], "title": "International Development Journalism competition 2012: When choosing kills \u2013 Unsafe Abortion in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-08-16T07:37:44Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Suicide bombers wearing military uniforms have stormed an airbase in Pakistan, heightening fears over the strength of militant groups in the country.The attack on the Minhas base at Kamra, in Punjab province, which is thought to house part of the country's nuclear arsenal, damaged one plane and led to the death of one soldier. At least eight militants died.The attackers, some dressed in military uniforms and armed with rocket-propelled grenades, climbed over a three-metre wall covered in barbed wire and attempted to approach hangars containing aircraft, an air force spokesman said. They kept up a gun battle for several hours, forcing the army to call in extra support from commandos.The commander of the base, Muhammad Azam, was reported to be in a stable condition after being shot in the shoulder.Soldiers searching the facility later found at least two remote-controlled bombs. \"We are checking every inch of the complex to make sure there are no other miscreants,\" said a spokesman, Tariq Mahmood.The president, Asif Ali Zardari, condemned the attack and said the government was determined to eliminate terrorism.It is the third time Minhas and the nearby Pakistan aeronautical complex, where fighter jets are assembled, have been attacked since 2007. Militants have mounted ambitious assaults on military facilities across the country in recent years, including a 16-hour attack on a naval base in Karachi last year that killed at least 10 military personnel.This week Leon Panetta, the US defence secretary, said Pakistan would soon launch a major operation against militants in Waziristan, a semi-autonomous area near the Afghan border that is a hotbed of militancy.Pakistan has long resisted US pressure to attempt to clear the area, particularly North Waziristan, which is home to the Haqqani Network, a Taliban-allied group known for attacks in Kabul. Panetta suggested that the Pakistani Taliban would be the most likely targets of any operation.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Suicide bombers storm Pakistan airbase"},{"date": "2012-08-16T07:37:44Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Suicide bombers wearing military uniforms have stormed an airbase in Pakistan, heightening fears over the strength of militant groups in the country.The attack on the Minhas base at Kamra, in Punjab province, which is thought to house part of the country's nuclear arsenal, damaged one plane and led to the death of one soldier. At least eight militants died.The attackers, some dressed in military uniforms and armed with rocket-propelled grenades, climbed over a three-metre wall covered in barbed wire and attempted to approach hangars containing aircraft, an air force spokesman said. They kept up a gun battle for several hours, forcing the army to call in extra support from commandos.The commander of the base, Muhammad Azam, was reported to be in a stable condition after being shot in the shoulder.Soldiers searching the facility later found at least two remote-controlled bombs. \"We are checking every inch of the complex to make sure there are no other miscreants,\" said a spokesman, Tariq Mahmood.The president, Asif Ali Zardari, condemned the attack and said the government was determined to eliminate terrorism.It is the third time Minhas and the nearby Pakistan aeronautical complex, where fighter jets are assembled, have been attacked since 2007. Militants have mounted ambitious assaults on military facilities across the country in recent years, including a 16-hour attack on a naval base in Karachi last year that killed at least 10 military personnel.This week Leon Panetta, the US defence secretary, said Pakistan would soon launch a major operation against militants in Waziristan, a semi-autonomous area near the Afghan border that is a hotbed of militancy.Pakistan has long resisted US pressure to attempt to clear the area, particularly North Waziristan, which is home to the Haqqani Network, a Taliban-allied group known for attacks in Kabul. Panetta suggested that the Pakistani Taliban would be the most likely targets of any operation.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Suicide bombers storm Pakistan airbase"},{"date": "2012-09-21T14:57:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Violent anti-US demonstrations have erupted across Pakistan after a week of rising anger and the fateful decision by the government to declare a national day of protest against the US film that mocks Islam's prophet.Tens of thousands of people took to the streets of all major cities, with many protests descending into serious unrest that killed at least 15 people, injured around 120 and did significant damage to businesses.In street battles across the country, protesters threw objects at police, who retaliated with teargas canisters and live rounds, mostly shot into the air.Three people were killed in Peshawar, close to the Afghan border, as mobs attacked buildings, including a number of cinemas that were set on fire.One victim was the driver of a broadcast truck owned by the television network ARY who was caught in police fire. He later died of his wounds in hospital but not before the television station broadcast continuous loops of him in obvious pain being attended to in an emergency room.In many places crowds were able to break through barricades erected by police, who struggled to control mobs enraged by the blasphemous video Innocence of Muslims that sparked the crisis.Images streaming in from all over the country on Pakistan's cable news channels got steadily grimmer as what the government had billed as \"Love of Prophet Muhammad Day\" wore on and protests descended into street battles and looting.Mobile phone networks had been turned off in 15 cities in an effort to frustrate the ability of crowds to organise themselves, but it appeared to have no effect and services were restored well before the originally advertised time of 6pm.In Lahore the grand colonial-era Mall Road was the setting for skirmishes by demonstrators who also attempted to approach the US consulate in the city.In Karachi, where two people were killed, including a police officer, rioters torched police vans, looted shops and even attacked the port city's fire brigade.And for a second day running in the normally sedate capital of Islamabad violence was concentrated in front of the five-star Serena hotel, which is on a road that leads to the fenced entrance of the diplomatic quarter where the US embassy is located.While police succeeded in holding back the several thousand strong crowd they also battled to prevent more protesters entering the city from the south.\"America has challenged the Muslim nation by making this movie,\" said a 19-year-old called Mohammad Fayyaz, who kept his face covered as he joined the violence in the capital. \"We will not go until the man who made the film is hanged.\"The US embassy continued a vigorous campaign of public diplomacy, which in recent days has included television and radio adverts featuring the secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, emphasising that the US government had nothing to do with the production of the film.Yesterday the acting ambassador, Richard Hoagland, met government officials to once again reiterate that Washington \"condemned this video's content and its message\".Critics have lambasted the Pakistani government's decision to make Friday a national holiday, saying it was hijacked by hardline religious parties, many of them fronts for banned terrorist organisations, who used the national strike as a chance to demonstrate their street power.Raza Rumi, a prominent analyst and newspaper columnist, said the government had chosen a policy of appeasement.\"The government is under immense pressure to appear as Islamic and as pious as anyone,\" he said. \"But it could have chosen an alternative strategy of engaging with the various religious groups and launched a public campaign to educate people rather than letting them take to the streets.\"Earlier in the day the prime minister addressed a gathering of politicians and top clerics in Islamabad. He called for peaceful protests, but also used language likely to inflame the many protesters who have claimed the video is part of a plot involving Jewish, Israeli and US interest.\"It is ironical that denial of Holocaust is considered a crime but no consideration is paid to the feelings of Muslims,\" he said. \"I hope the international community and Islamic world will be successful in preventing such things.\"If the intention of the government was to burnish its Islamic credentials in the runup to an election in the next six months, many protesters were not convinced.\"[President Asif Ali] Zardari is a man with no grace, he should resign,\" said Tabarak Lateef, a 22-year-old protester in Islamabad. \"Our rulers are traitors, they are American slaves and they should be ashamed of themselves.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Islam", "Religion", "US foreign policy", "US news"], "title": "Anti-US protests in Pakistan turn deadly"},{"date": "2012-11-13T17:42:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is on the cusp of joining an elite group of countries capable of manufacturing unmanned aircraft capable of killing as well as spying, a senior defence official has claims.Publicly, Islamabad, which officially objects to lethal drone strikes carried out by the CIA along its border with Afghanistan, says it is only developing remote-controlled aircraft for surveillance purposes.But last week, during a major arms fair held in Karachi, military officials briefed some of Pakistan's closest allies about efforts by the army to develop its own combat unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).\"The foreign delegates were quite excited by what Pakistan has achieved,\" said the official, who was closely involved with organising the four-day International Defence Exhibition and Seminar (Ideas). \"They were briefed about a UAV that can be armed and has the capability to carry a weapon payload.\"The official said Pakistan wanted to demonstrate to friendly countries, principally Turkey and the Gulf, that it can be self-sufficient in a technology that is revolutionising warfare and which is currently dominated by a handful of countries that do not readily share the capability.\"It does not have the efficiency and performance as good as Predator,\" he said, referring to the US combat drone widely used to attack militant targets. \"But it does exist.\"He gave no details about the capabilities of the aircraft, or even its name.Huw Williams, an expert on unmanned systems at Jane's Defence Weekly, expressed doubts that Pakistan could have succeeded in progressing very far from the \"pretty basic\" small reconnaissance drones, which the country publicly exhibited at the weapons show, including the Shahpar and Uqab aircraft developed by the state-owned consortium Global Industrial and Defence Solutions.\"The smaller systems are not greatly beyond that of a model aircraft,\" he said. \"But the larger, long-endurance drones are a step up in technology across the board.\"Only the US and Israel are currently believed to have drones that can fire missiles. China and Turkey are also working on large-scale combat drones.Both countries exhibited models of drones at the sprawling Karachi conference centre, which included Pakistani companies marketing everything from guns that shoot around corners to inflatable tanks intended to fox surveillance aircraft.The big claims about Pakistan's developing drone capacity highlights the enormous interest in the technology from armies around the world.\"Everyone has been asking us whether our drones can carry weapons,\" said Raja Sabri Khan, chief executive of Integrated Dynamics, a company that showed off a wide range of small and mid-size reconnaissance drones. \"But that's a business for the big boys only.\"Khan has been deliberately refocusing his company's efforts on smaller drones, many of which are launched by hand, which are mostly intended for civilian use.A Pakistani army colonel attending the exhibition, after recently finishing a tour fighting against militants in the country's border region, said such small drones were a vital tool.\"We have these small drones, but not enough of them and we do not always get them when we have operations,\" said the colonel, who did not wish to be named. \"They are excellent for observing the Taliban, their movements and deployments.\"It was the seventh arms fair hosted by Pakistan intended to show off the country's defence industry.Organisers conceded that this year had not been a major commercial success but were pleased with the turnout after the last event in 2010 had to be cancelled.Several exhibitors said Pakistani companies \u2013 many of which are directly owned by the country's military \u2013 offered a cheaper alternative to developing countries looking to buy everything from tanks to computer simulators used to train pilots.", "tags": ["Drones (military)", "Pakistan", "Arms trade", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Pakistan developing combat drones"},{"date": "2012-11-13T17:42:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is on the cusp of joining an elite group of countries capable of manufacturing unmanned aircraft capable of killing as well as spying, a senior defence official has claims.Publicly, Islamabad, which officially objects to lethal drone strikes carried out by the CIA along its border with Afghanistan, says it is only developing remote-controlled aircraft for surveillance purposes.But last week, during a major arms fair held in Karachi, military officials briefed some of Pakistan's closest allies about efforts by the army to develop its own combat unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).\"The foreign delegates were quite excited by what Pakistan has achieved,\" said the official, who was closely involved with organising the four-day International Defence Exhibition and Seminar (Ideas). \"They were briefed about a UAV that can be armed and has the capability to carry a weapon payload.\"The official said Pakistan wanted to demonstrate to friendly countries, principally Turkey and the Gulf, that it can be self-sufficient in a technology that is revolutionising warfare and which is currently dominated by a handful of countries that do not readily share the capability.\"It does not have the efficiency and performance as good as Predator,\" he said, referring to the US combat drone widely used to attack militant targets. \"But it does exist.\"He gave no details about the capabilities of the aircraft, or even its name.Huw Williams, an expert on unmanned systems at Jane's Defence Weekly, expressed doubts that Pakistan could have succeeded in progressing very far from the \"pretty basic\" small reconnaissance drones, which the country publicly exhibited at the weapons show, including the Shahpar and Uqab aircraft developed by the state-owned consortium Global Industrial and Defence Solutions.\"The smaller systems are not greatly beyond that of a model aircraft,\" he said. \"But the larger, long-endurance drones are a step up in technology across the board.\"Only the US and Israel are currently believed to have drones that can fire missiles. China and Turkey are also working on large-scale combat drones.Both countries exhibited models of drones at the sprawling Karachi conference centre, which included Pakistani companies marketing everything from guns that shoot around corners to inflatable tanks intended to fox surveillance aircraft.The big claims about Pakistan's developing drone capacity highlights the enormous interest in the technology from armies around the world.\"Everyone has been asking us whether our drones can carry weapons,\" said Raja Sabri Khan, chief executive of Integrated Dynamics, a company that showed off a wide range of small and mid-size reconnaissance drones. \"But that's a business for the big boys only.\"Khan has been deliberately refocusing his company's efforts on smaller drones, many of which are launched by hand, which are mostly intended for civilian use.A Pakistani army colonel attending the exhibition, after recently finishing a tour fighting against militants in the country's border region, said such small drones were a vital tool.\"We have these small drones, but not enough of them and we do not always get them when we have operations,\" said the colonel, who did not wish to be named. \"They are excellent for observing the Taliban, their movements and deployments.\"It was the seventh arms fair hosted by Pakistan intended to show off the country's defence industry.Organisers conceded that this year had not been a major commercial success but were pleased with the turnout after the last event in 2010 had to be cancelled.Several exhibitors said Pakistani companies \u2013 many of which are directly owned by the country's military \u2013 offered a cheaper alternative to developing countries looking to buy everything from tanks to computer simulators used to train pilots.", "tags": ["Drones (military)", "Pakistan", "Arms trade", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Pakistan developing combat drones"},{"date": "2012-10-13T09:28:17Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "At least 17 people have been killed after a suicide bomber blew himself up in a car in north-west Pakistan.Officials said the attack in the market of Darra Adam Khel, in the tribal Khyber region, appeared to target at pro-government militia.Regional government administrator Fakhruddin Khan said 17 people had been killed and at least 40 wounded. . Several of the wounded were in a critical condition.The bomb was detonated outside the offices of tribal elders. No group immediately claimed responsibility, but Pakistani Taliban militants have staged previous attacks against local elders, who have formed peace committees to evict militants and helped authorities in operations against insurgents.It was unclear how many people were in the offices. Police official Naeem Khan said passers-by as well as local elders were among the victims. At least 35 shops and eight vehicles were destroyed.Some of the wounded were reportedly being taken to hospitals in other towns, including Peshawar, a 30-minute drive away, because local facilities could not cope.With the backing of the US, the Pakistani government has fought to bring the tribal region under control, but has so far failed to break the network of militants. One of the strategies against the militia was the revival of traditional militias of tribesmen, who are now the focus of attack.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Deadly suicide blast in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-11-13T17:42:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is on the cusp of joining an elite group of countries capable of manufacturing unmanned aircraft capable of killing as well as spying, a senior defence official has claims.Publicly, Islamabad, which officially objects to lethal drone strikes carried out by the CIA along its border with Afghanistan, says it is only developing remote-controlled aircraft for surveillance purposes.But last week, during a major arms fair held in Karachi, military officials briefed some of Pakistan's closest allies about efforts by the army to develop its own combat unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).\"The foreign delegates were quite excited by what Pakistan has achieved,\" said the official, who was closely involved with organising the four-day International Defence Exhibition and Seminar (Ideas). \"They were briefed about a UAV that can be armed and has the capability to carry a weapon payload.\"The official said Pakistan wanted to demonstrate to friendly countries, principally Turkey and the Gulf, that it can be self-sufficient in a technology that is revolutionising warfare and which is currently dominated by a handful of countries that do not readily share the capability.\"It does not have the efficiency and performance as good as Predator,\" he said, referring to the US combat drone widely used to attack militant targets. \"But it does exist.\"He gave no details about the capabilities of the aircraft, or even its name.Huw Williams, an expert on unmanned systems at Jane's Defence Weekly, expressed doubts that Pakistan could have succeeded in progressing very far from the \"pretty basic\" small reconnaissance drones, which the country publicly exhibited at the weapons show, including the Shahpar and Uqab aircraft developed by the state-owned consortium Global Industrial and Defence Solutions.\"The smaller systems are not greatly beyond that of a model aircraft,\" he said. \"But the larger, long-endurance drones are a step up in technology across the board.\"Only the US and Israel are currently believed to have drones that can fire missiles. China and Turkey are also working on large-scale combat drones.Both countries exhibited models of drones at the sprawling Karachi conference centre, which included Pakistani companies marketing everything from guns that shoot around corners to inflatable tanks intended to fox surveillance aircraft.The big claims about Pakistan's developing drone capacity highlights the enormous interest in the technology from armies around the world.\"Everyone has been asking us whether our drones can carry weapons,\" said Raja Sabri Khan, chief executive of Integrated Dynamics, a company that showed off a wide range of small and mid-size reconnaissance drones. \"But that's a business for the big boys only.\"Khan has been deliberately refocusing his company's efforts on smaller drones, many of which are launched by hand, which are mostly intended for civilian use.A Pakistani army colonel attending the exhibition, after recently finishing a tour fighting against militants in the country's border region, said such small drones were a vital tool.\"We have these small drones, but not enough of them and we do not always get them when we have operations,\" said the colonel, who did not wish to be named. \"They are excellent for observing the Taliban, their movements and deployments.\"It was the seventh arms fair hosted by Pakistan intended to show off the country's defence industry.Organisers conceded that this year had not been a major commercial success but were pleased with the turnout after the last event in 2010 had to be cancelled.Several exhibitors said Pakistani companies \u2013 many of which are directly owned by the country's military \u2013 offered a cheaper alternative to developing countries looking to buy everything from tanks to computer simulators used to train pilots.", "tags": ["Drones (military)", "Pakistan", "Arms trade", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Pakistan developing combat drones"},{"date": "2012-10-13T09:28:17Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "At least 17 people have been killed after a suicide bomber blew himself up in a car in north-west Pakistan.Officials said the attack in the market of Darra Adam Khel, in the tribal Khyber region, appeared to target at pro-government militia.Regional government administrator Fakhruddin Khan said 17 people had been killed and at least 40 wounded. . Several of the wounded were in a critical condition.The bomb was detonated outside the offices of tribal elders. No group immediately claimed responsibility, but Pakistani Taliban militants have staged previous attacks against local elders, who have formed peace committees to evict militants and helped authorities in operations against insurgents.It was unclear how many people were in the offices. Police official Naeem Khan said passers-by as well as local elders were among the victims. At least 35 shops and eight vehicles were destroyed.Some of the wounded were reportedly being taken to hospitals in other towns, including Peshawar, a 30-minute drive away, because local facilities could not cope.With the backing of the US, the Pakistani government has fought to bring the tribal region under control, but has so far failed to break the network of militants. One of the strategies against the militia was the revival of traditional militias of tribesmen, who are now the focus of attack.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Deadly suicide blast in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-12-18T15:59:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Five female health workers vaccinating children against polio have been shot dead in Pakistan in a series of attacks blamed on Islamist militants. One victim was a 17-year-old schoolgirl volunteer.Four of the killings, which officials said were carried out by masked men on motorbikes, took place in the southern city of Karachi, Pakistan's commercial capital, on the second day of a drive to eradicate the disease from the country.The fifth, of the schoolgirl, occurred in the violent western city of Peshawar. According to some reports, a sixth health worker, a man, was also killed in Karachi.It was not clear who was behind the shootings, but Taliban insurgents have repeatedly denounced the anti-polio campaign as a western plot.The Pakistani government and United Nations partner organisations involved in the anti-polio campaign met after the killings to discuss the security situation and decided to temporarily suspend the campaign. In a joint statement the World health Organisation and United Nations CHildren's Fund (UNICEF) called on the leaders of \"the affected communities\" to do their utmost to protect health workers and create a secure environment.\"We're concerned for the safety of frontline workers. They are the true heroes,\" Michael Coleman, a spokesman for the United Nations Children's Fund, said.The volunteers were taking part in a three-day government-led drive, supported by the World Health Organisation and Unicef, to vaccinate tens of millions of children at risk from polio in Pakistan.After a decades-long struggle by multilateral organisations, governments and NGOs worldwide, the disease is now endemic only in three countries: Pakistan, Afghanistan and Nigeria.Relatives said several of the victims had received death threats in recent days. Some Islamists and Muslim preachers in Pakistan and elsewhere say the polio vaccine is a western plot to sterilise Muslims to stop population growth. Other religious leaders have taken part in campaigns aimed at debunking that myth.Resistance is particularly strong in Pakistan, where there has been a severe backlash against immunisation for polio and other diseases since the CIA used a Pakistani doctor, Shakil Afridi, to set up a fake vaccination programme as the agency closed in on the al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden in his hiding place in the town of Abbottabad, in the north-western province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, last year.In July, a Ghanaian doctor was shot in Karachi, a day after leaders of factions of the Pakistani Taliban backed a ban on immunisation in the country's restive tribal areas.This month a teenage student and volunteer on a polio vaccination programme was murdered by gunmen in an eastern Afghan village.Women and girls are frequent targets of militants. A veteran Swedish NGO worker who trained midwives was killed recently in the eastern city of Lahore. In October, the shooting of 15-year-old Malala Yousafzai by Islamic militants angered by her demands for education for girls made international headlines and provoked much debate in Pakistan. Yousafzai is recovering in a British hospital.Officials said the girl killed in Peshawar had received repeated threats that had forced her to move between houses of friends and relatives at least three times in recent days. She was accompanied by her sister, who escaped unhurt.Details remained sketchy of the attacks. The Peshawar incident took place in the Shagai suburb, which borders the lawless Mohmand tribal area, said Janbaz Afridi, a senior health official in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.In Karachi, the attacks occurred in three poor areas spread across the city. According to an official report seen by the Guardian, one was in the sprawling Orangi township. The second, in which two women were killed, took place in the eastern Landhi neighbourhood. A third attack was in Baldia town, in the west of the city. None of the victims appear to have had police protection.Statistics released in October showed an improvement in the polio situation in Pakistan, with 47 children paralysed by the disease in 27 districts compared with 154 cases in 48 districts in 2011. However, in 2005 only 28 new cases were registered.Fears of religious extremism in Karachi have grown in recent years. Large numbers of refugees from the violence-hit north-west have sought refuge there along with a number of senior militant leaders from groups including the Pakistani Taliban and al-Qaida. The influx has altered the demographic balance of the city and contributed to a recent surge in violence. However, extremist groups have been based in Karachi for many decades.Officials say there is reason to be optimistic that polio can be eradicated in Pakistan. In neighbouring India, a mass vaccination campaign involving more than a million volunteers reduced cases nationally by 94% between 2009 and 2010, from 741 to 42, and down to the single case last year. A key factor was the support for the campaign of clerics from poor Muslim communities.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Polio", "World news", "United Nations", "Global development"], "title": "Polio vaccination workers shot dead in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-11-13T17:42:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is on the cusp of joining an elite group of countries capable of manufacturing unmanned aircraft capable of killing as well as spying, a senior defence official has claims.Publicly, Islamabad, which officially objects to lethal drone strikes carried out by the CIA along its border with Afghanistan, says it is only developing remote-controlled aircraft for surveillance purposes.But last week, during a major arms fair held in Karachi, military officials briefed some of Pakistan's closest allies about efforts by the army to develop its own combat unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).\"The foreign delegates were quite excited by what Pakistan has achieved,\" said the official, who was closely involved with organising the four-day International Defence Exhibition and Seminar (Ideas). \"They were briefed about a UAV that can be armed and has the capability to carry a weapon payload.\"The official said Pakistan wanted to demonstrate to friendly countries, principally Turkey and the Gulf, that it can be self-sufficient in a technology that is revolutionising warfare and which is currently dominated by a handful of countries that do not readily share the capability.\"It does not have the efficiency and performance as good as Predator,\" he said, referring to the US combat drone widely used to attack militant targets. \"But it does exist.\"He gave no details about the capabilities of the aircraft, or even its name.Huw Williams, an expert on unmanned systems at Jane's Defence Weekly, expressed doubts that Pakistan could have succeeded in progressing very far from the \"pretty basic\" small reconnaissance drones, which the country publicly exhibited at the weapons show, including the Shahpar and Uqab aircraft developed by the state-owned consortium Global Industrial and Defence Solutions.\"The smaller systems are not greatly beyond that of a model aircraft,\" he said. \"But the larger, long-endurance drones are a step up in technology across the board.\"Only the US and Israel are currently believed to have drones that can fire missiles. China and Turkey are also working on large-scale combat drones.Both countries exhibited models of drones at the sprawling Karachi conference centre, which included Pakistani companies marketing everything from guns that shoot around corners to inflatable tanks intended to fox surveillance aircraft.The big claims about Pakistan's developing drone capacity highlights the enormous interest in the technology from armies around the world.\"Everyone has been asking us whether our drones can carry weapons,\" said Raja Sabri Khan, chief executive of Integrated Dynamics, a company that showed off a wide range of small and mid-size reconnaissance drones. \"But that's a business for the big boys only.\"Khan has been deliberately refocusing his company's efforts on smaller drones, many of which are launched by hand, which are mostly intended for civilian use.A Pakistani army colonel attending the exhibition, after recently finishing a tour fighting against militants in the country's border region, said such small drones were a vital tool.\"We have these small drones, but not enough of them and we do not always get them when we have operations,\" said the colonel, who did not wish to be named. \"They are excellent for observing the Taliban, their movements and deployments.\"It was the seventh arms fair hosted by Pakistan intended to show off the country's defence industry.Organisers conceded that this year had not been a major commercial success but were pleased with the turnout after the last event in 2010 had to be cancelled.Several exhibitors said Pakistani companies \u2013 many of which are directly owned by the country's military \u2013 offered a cheaper alternative to developing countries looking to buy everything from tanks to computer simulators used to train pilots.", "tags": ["Drones (military)", "Pakistan", "Arms trade", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Pakistan developing combat drones"},{"date": "2012-10-13T09:28:17Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "At least 17 people have been killed after a suicide bomber blew himself up in a car in north-west Pakistan.Officials said the attack in the market of Darra Adam Khel, in the tribal Khyber region, appeared to target at pro-government militia.Regional government administrator Fakhruddin Khan said 17 people had been killed and at least 40 wounded. . Several of the wounded were in a critical condition.The bomb was detonated outside the offices of tribal elders. No group immediately claimed responsibility, but Pakistani Taliban militants have staged previous attacks against local elders, who have formed peace committees to evict militants and helped authorities in operations against insurgents.It was unclear how many people were in the offices. Police official Naeem Khan said passers-by as well as local elders were among the victims. At least 35 shops and eight vehicles were destroyed.Some of the wounded were reportedly being taken to hospitals in other towns, including Peshawar, a 30-minute drive away, because local facilities could not cope.With the backing of the US, the Pakistani government has fought to bring the tribal region under control, but has so far failed to break the network of militants. One of the strategies against the militia was the revival of traditional militias of tribesmen, who are now the focus of attack.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Deadly suicide blast in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-12-18T15:59:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Five female health workers vaccinating children against polio have been shot dead in Pakistan in a series of attacks blamed on Islamist militants. One victim was a 17-year-old schoolgirl volunteer.Four of the killings, which officials said were carried out by masked men on motorbikes, took place in the southern city of Karachi, Pakistan's commercial capital, on the second day of a drive to eradicate the disease from the country.The fifth, of the schoolgirl, occurred in the violent western city of Peshawar. According to some reports, a sixth health worker, a man, was also killed in Karachi.It was not clear who was behind the shootings, but Taliban insurgents have repeatedly denounced the anti-polio campaign as a western plot.The Pakistani government and United Nations partner organisations involved in the anti-polio campaign met after the killings to discuss the security situation and decided to temporarily suspend the campaign. In a joint statement the World health Organisation and United Nations CHildren's Fund (UNICEF) called on the leaders of \"the affected communities\" to do their utmost to protect health workers and create a secure environment.\"We're concerned for the safety of frontline workers. They are the true heroes,\" Michael Coleman, a spokesman for the United Nations Children's Fund, said.The volunteers were taking part in a three-day government-led drive, supported by the World Health Organisation and Unicef, to vaccinate tens of millions of children at risk from polio in Pakistan.After a decades-long struggle by multilateral organisations, governments and NGOs worldwide, the disease is now endemic only in three countries: Pakistan, Afghanistan and Nigeria.Relatives said several of the victims had received death threats in recent days. Some Islamists and Muslim preachers in Pakistan and elsewhere say the polio vaccine is a western plot to sterilise Muslims to stop population growth. Other religious leaders have taken part in campaigns aimed at debunking that myth.Resistance is particularly strong in Pakistan, where there has been a severe backlash against immunisation for polio and other diseases since the CIA used a Pakistani doctor, Shakil Afridi, to set up a fake vaccination programme as the agency closed in on the al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden in his hiding place in the town of Abbottabad, in the north-western province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, last year.In July, a Ghanaian doctor was shot in Karachi, a day after leaders of factions of the Pakistani Taliban backed a ban on immunisation in the country's restive tribal areas.This month a teenage student and volunteer on a polio vaccination programme was murdered by gunmen in an eastern Afghan village.Women and girls are frequent targets of militants. A veteran Swedish NGO worker who trained midwives was killed recently in the eastern city of Lahore. In October, the shooting of 15-year-old Malala Yousafzai by Islamic militants angered by her demands for education for girls made international headlines and provoked much debate in Pakistan. Yousafzai is recovering in a British hospital.Officials said the girl killed in Peshawar had received repeated threats that had forced her to move between houses of friends and relatives at least three times in recent days. She was accompanied by her sister, who escaped unhurt.Details remained sketchy of the attacks. The Peshawar incident took place in the Shagai suburb, which borders the lawless Mohmand tribal area, said Janbaz Afridi, a senior health official in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.In Karachi, the attacks occurred in three poor areas spread across the city. According to an official report seen by the Guardian, one was in the sprawling Orangi township. The second, in which two women were killed, took place in the eastern Landhi neighbourhood. A third attack was in Baldia town, in the west of the city. None of the victims appear to have had police protection.Statistics released in October showed an improvement in the polio situation in Pakistan, with 47 children paralysed by the disease in 27 districts compared with 154 cases in 48 districts in 2011. However, in 2005 only 28 new cases were registered.Fears of religious extremism in Karachi have grown in recent years. Large numbers of refugees from the violence-hit north-west have sought refuge there along with a number of senior militant leaders from groups including the Pakistani Taliban and al-Qaida. The influx has altered the demographic balance of the city and contributed to a recent surge in violence. However, extremist groups have been based in Karachi for many decades.Officials say there is reason to be optimistic that polio can be eradicated in Pakistan. In neighbouring India, a mass vaccination campaign involving more than a million volunteers reduced cases nationally by 94% between 2009 and 2010, from 741 to 42, and down to the single case last year. A key factor was the support for the campaign of clerics from poor Muslim communities.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Polio", "World news", "United Nations", "Global development"], "title": "Polio vaccination workers shot dead in Pakistan"},{"date": "2012-12-12T18:52:17Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Nearly 70% of Pakistan's politicians, including some of the country's wealthiest people, did not file tax returns last year, according to a report that shines a light on a longstanding problem that reaches to the top of society.According to an investigation published on Wednesday, the vast majority of MPs, cabinet ministers and Pakistan's famously affluent president, Asif Ali Zardari, have not paid tax owed to the desperately cash-strapped government.The report, by the Centre for Investigative Reporting and the Centre for Peace and Development Initiatives, comes at time of deepening economic crisis in a country that collects just 9% of its national wealth in tax \u2013 almost matching Afghanistan as one of the lowest rates in the world.Tax dodging is rife among Pakistan's 180 million population; just 2% are registered within the tax system but fewer actually pay it. Critics say the rich and powerful are some of the worst offenders and are effectively subsidised by the poor.\"Those who make revenue policies, run the government and collect taxes have not been able to set good examples for others,\" says the Representation Without Taxation report. It found 69% of national assembly members and 63% of senate members did not file tax returns in 2011. Although they are automatically taxed on their basic state salary, by failing to declare any additional wealth they would have been able to evade paying tax.According to a 2009 study, the average wealth of a member of the national assembly was well over \u00a3500,000. Under Pakistani law, tax must be paid on income in excess of \u00a33,200. With little revenue to support the national budget, the government has been forced to borrow huge amounts from its banks. Many analysts fear Pakistan's threadbare public finances are unsustainable and yet another bailout by foreign donors could be imminent.The latest research, led by journalist Umar Cheema, is based on the personal tax numbers politicians must include on their nomination papers when standing for election. The figures were used to track down tax filings, most of which were unofficially divulged by staff within the federal board of revenue. Just two politicians voluntarily replied to researchers asking for their tax details, the report says.According to the report, 73 members of the national assembly did not even have a personal tax number at the time of the last election in 2008.In the current cabinet of 55 ministers, only 21 filed tax returns, the report alleged, and those who were taxed paid very little, with only 9% of national assembly members paying more than $6,400 (\u00a34,000). Mushahid Hussain Sayed, a member of the senate, paid just 82 rupees \u2013 about 50p.In an email to Reuters, Sayed disputed the report, saying he had paid $6. \"I was not a senator then; my source of support was from my family's agricultural income and lecture honoraria,\" he said.Zardari did not file a tax return in 2011, according to the database of Pakistan's tax collectors, although the report said his spokesman insisted he had.Many parliamentarians are feudal landlords who own vast estates giving them huge incomes and armies of workers who vote for them. However, income from agricultural production is tax exempt.The government plans to launch an amnesty allowing tax evaders to register their untaxed wealth by paying a flat penalty of up to \u00a3380. Although it will cost the state millions of pounds in lost revenue, officials think it will reel more people into the tax net.Pakistan has long struggled with tax evasion by the rich and powerful. In a 1986 speech, Zia-ul-Haq, the former military dictator, said if Islamic law called for the amputation of the hands of thieves, tax evaders should have their entire arm cut off. But, as the report notes, Zia failed to file a tax return between 1960 and 1988.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Asif Ali Zardari", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan politicians engulfed by tax evasion storm"},{"date": "2013-03-04T07:42:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Senior reporter Malik Mumtaz was shot to death while driving home in the city of Miranshah, capital of the tribal region of north Waziristan, last Wednesday (27 February).The journalist reported for Geo TV, as well as other Urdu and English speaking newspapers. His murder prompted a widespread outcry and a protest rally by groups of journalists.Both the Pakistan army and the outlawed group Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan condemned the killing. The Vienna-based International Press Institute (IPI) urged a swift and comprehensive investigation\"The continued, pervasive impunity in all cases of violence against journalists is the single greatest reason for the numerous targeted killings against journalists in Pakistan that we have been reporting about in recent years,\" said IPI's press freedom manager Barbara Trionfi.Source: IPI", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Human rights"], "title": "Pakistan journalist gunned down"},{"date": "2013-03-04T07:42:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Senior reporter Malik Mumtaz was shot to death while driving home in the city of Miranshah, capital of the tribal region of north Waziristan, last Wednesday (27 February).The journalist reported for Geo TV, as well as other Urdu and English speaking newspapers. His murder prompted a widespread outcry and a protest rally by groups of journalists.Both the Pakistan army and the outlawed group Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan condemned the killing. The Vienna-based International Press Institute (IPI) urged a swift and comprehensive investigation\"The continued, pervasive impunity in all cases of violence against journalists is the single greatest reason for the numerous targeted killings against journalists in Pakistan that we have been reporting about in recent years,\" said IPI's press freedom manager Barbara Trionfi.Source: IPI", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Human rights"], "title": "Pakistan journalist gunned down"},{"date": "2013-01-15T09:00:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last Thursday the 33-year-old Pakistani activist Irfan Ali told his Twitter followers he had narrowly escaped a bomb blast in the provincial capital, Quetta, which killed 12 people and injured 25. In the next hour he tweeted three more times about the terrorism wreaking havoc on Pakistan and the \"genocidal pressure\" faced by the Hazaras \u2013 an ethnic group which is primarily Shia.A few hours later there was another bomb blast, this time in a snooker hall frequented by Hazaras. While helping the injured, Irfan Ali was killed by a suicide bomber who waited until the hall was filled with rescue workers before detonating his explosives. In all, 81 people died in the snooker hall and 110 were wounded. The extremist Sunni group Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) was quick\u00a0to claim responsibility.There are certain actions which even the most wretched nation should be able to rely on following an act of such monstrosity: a televised address by the head of state, condolence visits to the families of the dead by national and provincial leaders, substantial media coverage, and swift reprisals against the\u00a0LeJ, who may be \"underground\" but\u00a0are hardly invisible.None of this happened. Instead, the day after the carnage mourners and activists gathered outdoors in Quetta, in the mid-winter chill, to stage a sit-in beside dozens of coffins bearing shrouded bodies, and insisted they would not move their dead until the provincial government (under whose watch attacks on Hazaras have accelerated) had been removed from office and the army had launched an operation against the LeJ.Human Rights Watch released a statement making it plain where culpability lies: \"By their inaction in the face of massacre after massacre and killing after killing, Pakistan's political leaders, law enforcement agencies, judiciary and military are presiding over a collective failure to address the growing perception that they are either in sympathy with Sunni extremists or utterly incompetent, and unable to provide basic security.\" It doesn't take a deep knowledge of Pakistan to know that the \"utterly incompetent\" part of the equation attaches itself to the civilian branch of government and the \"sympathy with Sunni extremists\" part to sections of the security services, who are widely believed to have allied themselves with extremist groups including the LeJ for their own strategic ends.Will the recent carnage change any of this? In an unprecedented show of solidarity with the mourners in Quetta, protests sprang up in a great many parts of the country, finally forcing the government to respond \u2013 which it did by imposing the executive authority of the governor over the province and directing the police and paramilitary to act against the groups involved. On Monday, in the wake of the government's response, the mourners said they would bury their dead, after nearly 70 hours of sitting with them.While there is no discounting the significance of the nationwide protests, it's important to acknowledge that most of the protesters were Shia: we are still far from a full-throated chorus of \"No more\" from a nation of 180 million.Instead it remains true that \"common cause\" is a rare beast in Pakistan (though Irfan Ali understood it well \u2013 his Twitter profile says \"I was born to fight for human rights and peace.\"). In a country where extremists target everyone who doesn't fit into their narrow definition of a \"good Muslim\", be they Shia, Ahmadiyya, Hindu, Christian, accused-blasphemer, those asking for changes to the blasphemy laws, or girls who want to go to school, it too often feels as though people can't bring themselves to do more than guard their own turf, or try to stay under the radar. And, most worryingly of all, there are those who simply don't disagree sufficiently with the extremists to do very much about it.Many commentators talk about the 80s as the decade in Pakistan when the rot set in, but in fact it was there at the very birth of the nation. I'm not talking about 1947, which is the year in which a country called East and West Pakistan came into existence. That nation ceased to exist in 1971, when East Pakistan became Bangladesh and Pakistan's population shrank by more than 50%.So it is in 1971 that present day Pakistan was really formed \u2013 on the back of massacres and mass rapes of Bengalis, for which no one in Pakistan has ever been held accountable. Among the reasons cited to justify the Pakistan state's brutality against its Bengali citizens was that they weren't good Muslims. All this is erased from Pakistan's history books. So in the end, perhaps it isn't so very surprising that the nation which never said \"Never again\" should be condemned to \"again, and again, and again\".", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Islam", "Religion"], "title": "No solidarity in Pakistan | Kamila Shamsie"},{"date": "2013-03-04T07:42:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Senior reporter Malik Mumtaz was shot to death while driving home in the city of Miranshah, capital of the tribal region of north Waziristan, last Wednesday (27 February).The journalist reported for Geo TV, as well as other Urdu and English speaking newspapers. His murder prompted a widespread outcry and a protest rally by groups of journalists.Both the Pakistan army and the outlawed group Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan condemned the killing. The Vienna-based International Press Institute (IPI) urged a swift and comprehensive investigation\"The continued, pervasive impunity in all cases of violence against journalists is the single greatest reason for the numerous targeted killings against journalists in Pakistan that we have been reporting about in recent years,\" said IPI's press freedom manager Barbara Trionfi.Source: IPI", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Human rights"], "title": "Pakistan journalist gunned down"},{"date": "2013-01-15T09:00:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Last Thursday the 33-year-old Pakistani activist Irfan Ali told his Twitter followers he had narrowly escaped a bomb blast in the provincial capital, Quetta, which killed 12 people and injured 25. In the next hour he tweeted three more times about the terrorism wreaking havoc on Pakistan and the \"genocidal pressure\" faced by the Hazaras \u2013 an ethnic group which is primarily Shia.A few hours later there was another bomb blast, this time in a snooker hall frequented by Hazaras. While helping the injured, Irfan Ali was killed by a suicide bomber who waited until the hall was filled with rescue workers before detonating his explosives. In all, 81 people died in the snooker hall and 110 were wounded. The extremist Sunni group Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) was quick\u00a0to claim responsibility.There are certain actions which even the most wretched nation should be able to rely on following an act of such monstrosity: a televised address by the head of state, condolence visits to the families of the dead by national and provincial leaders, substantial media coverage, and swift reprisals against the\u00a0LeJ, who may be \"underground\" but\u00a0are hardly invisible.None of this happened. Instead, the day after the carnage mourners and activists gathered outdoors in Quetta, in the mid-winter chill, to stage a sit-in beside dozens of coffins bearing shrouded bodies, and insisted they would not move their dead until the provincial government (under whose watch attacks on Hazaras have accelerated) had been removed from office and the army had launched an operation against the LeJ.Human Rights Watch released a statement making it plain where culpability lies: \"By their inaction in the face of massacre after massacre and killing after killing, Pakistan's political leaders, law enforcement agencies, judiciary and military are presiding over a collective failure to address the growing perception that they are either in sympathy with Sunni extremists or utterly incompetent, and unable to provide basic security.\" It doesn't take a deep knowledge of Pakistan to know that the \"utterly incompetent\" part of the equation attaches itself to the civilian branch of government and the \"sympathy with Sunni extremists\" part to sections of the security services, who are widely believed to have allied themselves with extremist groups including the LeJ for their own strategic ends.Will the recent carnage change any of this? In an unprecedented show of solidarity with the mourners in Quetta, protests sprang up in a great many parts of the country, finally forcing the government to respond \u2013 which it did by imposing the executive authority of the governor over the province and directing the police and paramilitary to act against the groups involved. On Monday, in the wake of the government's response, the mourners said they would bury their dead, after nearly 70 hours of sitting with them.While there is no discounting the significance of the nationwide protests, it's important to acknowledge that most of the protesters were Shia: we are still far from a full-throated chorus of \"No more\" from a nation of 180 million.Instead it remains true that \"common cause\" is a rare beast in Pakistan (though Irfan Ali understood it well \u2013 his Twitter profile says \"I was born to fight for human rights and peace.\"). In a country where extremists target everyone who doesn't fit into their narrow definition of a \"good Muslim\", be they Shia, Ahmadiyya, Hindu, Christian, accused-blasphemer, those asking for changes to the blasphemy laws, or girls who want to go to school, it too often feels as though people can't bring themselves to do more than guard their own turf, or try to stay under the radar. And, most worryingly of all, there are those who simply don't disagree sufficiently with the extremists to do very much about it.Many commentators talk about the 80s as the decade in Pakistan when the rot set in, but in fact it was there at the very birth of the nation. I'm not talking about 1947, which is the year in which a country called East and West Pakistan came into existence. That nation ceased to exist in 1971, when East Pakistan became Bangladesh and Pakistan's population shrank by more than 50%.So it is in 1971 that present day Pakistan was really formed \u2013 on the back of massacres and mass rapes of Bengalis, for which no one in Pakistan has ever been held accountable. Among the reasons cited to justify the Pakistan state's brutality against its Bengali citizens was that they weren't good Muslims. All this is erased from Pakistan's history books. So in the end, perhaps it isn't so very surprising that the nation which never said \"Never again\" should be condemned to \"again, and again, and again\".", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Islam", "Religion"], "title": "No solidarity in Pakistan | Kamila Shamsie"},{"date": "2013-03-19T17:10:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Crunchy leaves, shiny penny loafers, dirty pencil shavings, cached lunch money, trendy backpacks, butterfly tummies, and the bright yellow school bus \u2013 it must be back to school season. The anticipation of meeting a new teacher is remembered ephemerally as one of the joys of school days. Children in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan on the border with Afghanistan are not making these memories. Three million school aged children, two million of which are girls, are not enrolled in basic education. The plight of these children was highlighted by the tragic shooting of child education activist; Malala Yousafzai aged 15, on 9 October 2012 as she rode home on a bus after taking an exam in Khyber Pakhunkhwa's Swat valley.Around half of the total population of Khyber Pakhtunkwa is illiterate and less than 30% of females are literate. The weak and outdated Khyber Pakhunkhwa public education system has been impacted by successive crises but the local government is committed to turning it around. The Khyber Pakhtunkwa government has set several priorities to increase the number of children enrolling in and successfully completing quality primary and secondary education, including: improved and more equitable access to education, improving the quality of learning in schools, improving the curriculum, improving textbooks and learning materials, improved infrastructure, and improved governance and management.Adam Smith International is serving as DfID's managing organisation for a five-year Khyber Pakhtunkhwa education sector programme to assist the provincial government with its ambitious plan. The programme could be given up to \u00a3123m in an education service delivery grant, from DfID and AusAid, if it meets its performance milestones. So far two tranches of capital have been issued as a result of the local government meeting its targets. As part of the programme, Adam Smith International is assisting the local government to establish sound public financial management to receive and disburse this funding appropriately. The province's senior leadership meets with the Adam Smith International team regularly to review and analyse data and take stock of progress.Key outcomes for the Adam Smith International managed programme so far include: 1500 lesson plans have been developed which, for the first time, are aligned with the current curriculum and textbooks. Primary school teachers are being trained in how to use lesson plans. A confidential corporal punishment hotline has been set up for students or parents to report physical punishment. The local government has distributed a cash stipend to girls across the province for attending school. UK Secretary of State, Justine Greening, said: \"I saw for myself the transformational education programme DfID is helping to fund in Pakistan. I met girls with big ideas about what jobs they would like to do when they became older \u2013 teachers, doctors, scientists. I remember when I was growing up in Rotherham in the 1980's, I had ideas \u2013 I wasn't sure what they'd amount to, but I knew education was my first step. They knew it too and who knows what they can achieve with the opportunity.\"Malala Yousafzai's nomination for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2013 is raising awareness among parents and communities of the benefits of educational opportunities in Khyber Pakhtunkwa. The DfID-funded programme is helping to improve community engagement with education providers. There is also huge potential for the private sector including not-for-profit organisations in Khyber Pakhunkhwa to widen access and enrollment in education, especially for girls and young women, and to develop opportunities for innovative approaches, such as, skills training. As the seasons change from winter to spring, there is hope that when autumn approaches this year more children in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa will experience homework, bouncing erasers, desktops with chairs connected and the joy of school days.Content on this page is produced and controlled by Adam Smith International", "tags": ["Adam Smith International partner zone"], "title": "Transforming educational opportunities in Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-06-13T12:59:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Since the Pakistan election last month, Muddassir Rizvi has been persona non grata from a government perspective. As chief executive officer of the Free and Fair Elections (Fafen), a non-partisan organization, Rizvi successfully pressured the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) to release polling data and vote counts after the poll. But he has also attracted resentment from certain government authorities.\"We live in a country where there is minimal transparency,\" says Rizvi, 42, a former journalist. \"Basic public information is not available. For example \u2026 the number of ballot papers used and returned last month from polling stations is critical [to know] because it will help to identify the scale of election rigging.\"Rizvi is demanding the ECP release details of the number of votes cast, together with all related documents \u2013 including election forms from more than 69,000 polling stations countrywide in 272 constituencies.When Fafen began its work in 2006, as a network of organisations based in Islamabad, its primary objective was to mobilise voters and observe the 2008 elections. \"We resolved to stay independent of government control and began developing indigenous methodologies to monitor the election,\" says Rizvi.With 18,000 trained election observers in 2008 and 41,000 in 2013, Fafen is supported by donors include USAid, the Department for International Development, the European Union, and the Asia Foundation. Fafen has focused on voter mobilisation in 564 constituencies where women voters in previous elections were forced to stay away from polling stations. Other projects work more broadly on encouraging greater citizen engagement and public accountability.\"When institutions have the power to keep information hidden, they remain at an advantage. This means citizens don't understand the law or their rights,\" says Rizvi, who argues a climate of secrecy can provide ample opportunity for the manipulation of votes and voting records. In this context, he compares Fafen's work to that of accountants who ask for the original receipts when dealing with expenses claims.Recently, Fafen has itself been criticised for misrepresenting voter numbers; it originally reported a 100% voter turnout at 49 polling stations last month. Rizvi says errors have occurred where election commission representatives failed to disclose polling information to election monitors. \"The ECP is now further pressurised to release the correct information on voter turnout. The sensitivity and mechanics of this information were kept away from the public eye. This mishap emphasises that disclosures need to be made.\"What does transparency mean to you?It's about citizens accessing any information that they need in order to make objective decisions, and judgements on the performance of elected representatives and public institutions.Why is access to information important in development?Objective information based on the needs of people is important. Decisions made by the state are not on the basis of objective information.What is the one piece of information you most want released?Aid agencies should make public financial information. For example, Fafen ensures that money received through international donors is spent on beneficiaries and not for fast cars and expensive lifestyles by its employees.", "tags": ["Global development", "Transparency"], "title": "Transparency in Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-06-13T12:59:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Since the Pakistan election last month, Muddassir Rizvi has been persona non grata from a government perspective. As chief executive officer of the Free and Fair Elections (Fafen), a non-partisan organization, Rizvi successfully pressured the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) to release polling data and vote counts after the poll. But he has also attracted resentment from certain government authorities.\"We live in a country where there is minimal transparency,\" says Rizvi, 42, a former journalist. \"Basic public information is not available. For example \u2026 the number of ballot papers used and returned last month from polling stations is critical [to know] because it will help to identify the scale of election rigging.\"Rizvi is demanding the ECP release details of the number of votes cast, together with all related documents \u2013 including election forms from more than 69,000 polling stations countrywide in 272 constituencies.When Fafen began its work in 2006, as a network of organisations based in Islamabad, its primary objective was to mobilise voters and observe the 2008 elections. \"We resolved to stay independent of government control and began developing indigenous methodologies to monitor the election,\" says Rizvi.With 18,000 trained election observers in 2008 and 41,000 in 2013, Fafen is supported by donors include USAid, the Department for International Development, the European Union, and the Asia Foundation. Fafen has focused on voter mobilisation in 564 constituencies where women voters in previous elections were forced to stay away from polling stations. Other projects work more broadly on encouraging greater citizen engagement and public accountability.\"When institutions have the power to keep information hidden, they remain at an advantage. This means citizens don't understand the law or their rights,\" says Rizvi, who argues a climate of secrecy can provide ample opportunity for the manipulation of votes and voting records. In this context, he compares Fafen's work to that of accountants who ask for the original receipts when dealing with expenses claims.Recently, Fafen has itself been criticised for misrepresenting voter numbers; it originally reported a 100% voter turnout at 49 polling stations last month. Rizvi says errors have occurred where election commission representatives failed to disclose polling information to election monitors. \"The ECP is now further pressurised to release the correct information on voter turnout. The sensitivity and mechanics of this information were kept away from the public eye. This mishap emphasises that disclosures need to be made.\"What does transparency mean to you?It's about citizens accessing any information that they need in order to make objective decisions, and judgements on the performance of elected representatives and public institutions.Why is access to information important in development?Objective information based on the needs of people is important. Decisions made by the state are not on the basis of objective information.What is the one piece of information you most want released?Aid agencies should make public financial information. For example, Fafen ensures that money received through international donors is spent on beneficiaries and not for fast cars and expensive lifestyles by its employees.", "tags": ["Global development", "Transparency"], "title": "Transparency in Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-05-13T21:46:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Nawaz Sharif, who is set to become Pakistan's next prime minister, has a huge opportunity to reshape the face of Pakistani politics. When the results of Saturday's poll are confirmed, his party will have enough seats to govern without a major coalition deal.Defying predictions that his party would bleed votes to Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) swept all aside in the Punjab, the most populous province. The centre-right party pushed the centre-left Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) all the way back to its traditional base in Sindh.Factor in the other changes of the guard that are due this year \u2013 the election of a president, the appointment of a new army chief of staff and a new chief justice \u2013 and Mr Sharif has the opportunity of establishing a firm basis for a full term, which the outgoing PPP president never had. If power does not go to his head, Mr Sharif could use it wisely.Governing Pakistan is never easy. The majoritarian vote in Punjab was strong enough to deliver a central government, but that rule did not apply to Sindh, which the PPP kept, or in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province, where Mr Khan's party got enough seats to contend for the control of the regional government.Mr Khan's anti-corruption drive may have electrified the media but it did not turn out to be a national phenomenon. The provincial breakdown of the vote poses the same challenge to Mr Sharif. Unless his government can deliver services to the nation that the PML-N showed it could deliver in Punjab, the new prime minister's honeymoon will be a short one.For Mr Sharif, it will be a case of third time lucky. Much of that luck will depend on whether he has absorbed the political lessons of his first two stormy periods in office. Unlike Asif Zardari, Mr Sharif does not have the political gifts needed to keep coalitions together.And yet with Sindh, and the Senate (until 2015), in the hands of the opposition, he will need to govern with a measure of consultation; he cannot change the constitution.In its fraught relationship with the US, Pakistan's actions are often at variance with its rhetoric. On Monday Mr Sharif said that the CIA drone programme was a challenge to Pakistan's sovereignty.Which it is, until you scrape away the surface, and see how the Inter-Services Intelligence is not beyond using the CIA as cover for its own dark deeds. The PML-N's resounding victory tapped anti-American populism. Mr Sharif must now navigate a strategic relationship that makes different demands.The Taliban, similarly, may give Mr Sharif a few months of peace but, because its agenda and that of Pakistan are mutually irreconcilable, they may well turn their guns on the Punjab. Mr Sharif has to prove that a civilian-led government is up to these challenges.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: change of guard | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-13T12:59:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Since the Pakistan election last month, Muddassir Rizvi has been persona non grata from a government perspective. As chief executive officer of the Free and Fair Elections (Fafen), a non-partisan organization, Rizvi successfully pressured the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) to release polling data and vote counts after the poll. But he has also attracted resentment from certain government authorities.\"We live in a country where there is minimal transparency,\" says Rizvi, 42, a former journalist. \"Basic public information is not available. For example \u2026 the number of ballot papers used and returned last month from polling stations is critical [to know] because it will help to identify the scale of election rigging.\"Rizvi is demanding the ECP release details of the number of votes cast, together with all related documents \u2013 including election forms from more than 69,000 polling stations countrywide in 272 constituencies.When Fafen began its work in 2006, as a network of organisations based in Islamabad, its primary objective was to mobilise voters and observe the 2008 elections. \"We resolved to stay independent of government control and began developing indigenous methodologies to monitor the election,\" says Rizvi.With 18,000 trained election observers in 2008 and 41,000 in 2013, Fafen is supported by donors include USAid, the Department for International Development, the European Union, and the Asia Foundation. Fafen has focused on voter mobilisation in 564 constituencies where women voters in previous elections were forced to stay away from polling stations. Other projects work more broadly on encouraging greater citizen engagement and public accountability.\"When institutions have the power to keep information hidden, they remain at an advantage. This means citizens don't understand the law or their rights,\" says Rizvi, who argues a climate of secrecy can provide ample opportunity for the manipulation of votes and voting records. In this context, he compares Fafen's work to that of accountants who ask for the original receipts when dealing with expenses claims.Recently, Fafen has itself been criticised for misrepresenting voter numbers; it originally reported a 100% voter turnout at 49 polling stations last month. Rizvi says errors have occurred where election commission representatives failed to disclose polling information to election monitors. \"The ECP is now further pressurised to release the correct information on voter turnout. The sensitivity and mechanics of this information were kept away from the public eye. This mishap emphasises that disclosures need to be made.\"What does transparency mean to you?It's about citizens accessing any information that they need in order to make objective decisions, and judgements on the performance of elected representatives and public institutions.Why is access to information important in development?Objective information based on the needs of people is important. Decisions made by the state are not on the basis of objective information.What is the one piece of information you most want released?Aid agencies should make public financial information. For example, Fafen ensures that money received through international donors is spent on beneficiaries and not for fast cars and expensive lifestyles by its employees.", "tags": ["Global development", "Transparency"], "title": "Transparency in Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-05-13T21:46:42Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Nawaz Sharif, who is set to become Pakistan's next prime minister, has a huge opportunity to reshape the face of Pakistani politics. When the results of Saturday's poll are confirmed, his party will have enough seats to govern without a major coalition deal.Defying predictions that his party would bleed votes to Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) swept all aside in the Punjab, the most populous province. The centre-right party pushed the centre-left Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) all the way back to its traditional base in Sindh.Factor in the other changes of the guard that are due this year \u2013 the election of a president, the appointment of a new army chief of staff and a new chief justice \u2013 and Mr Sharif has the opportunity of establishing a firm basis for a full term, which the outgoing PPP president never had. If power does not go to his head, Mr Sharif could use it wisely.Governing Pakistan is never easy. The majoritarian vote in Punjab was strong enough to deliver a central government, but that rule did not apply to Sindh, which the PPP kept, or in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province, where Mr Khan's party got enough seats to contend for the control of the regional government.Mr Khan's anti-corruption drive may have electrified the media but it did not turn out to be a national phenomenon. The provincial breakdown of the vote poses the same challenge to Mr Sharif. Unless his government can deliver services to the nation that the PML-N showed it could deliver in Punjab, the new prime minister's honeymoon will be a short one.For Mr Sharif, it will be a case of third time lucky. Much of that luck will depend on whether he has absorbed the political lessons of his first two stormy periods in office. Unlike Asif Zardari, Mr Sharif does not have the political gifts needed to keep coalitions together.And yet with Sindh, and the Senate (until 2015), in the hands of the opposition, he will need to govern with a measure of consultation; he cannot change the constitution.In its fraught relationship with the US, Pakistan's actions are often at variance with its rhetoric. On Monday Mr Sharif said that the CIA drone programme was a challenge to Pakistan's sovereignty.Which it is, until you scrape away the surface, and see how the Inter-Services Intelligence is not beyond using the CIA as cover for its own dark deeds. The PML-N's resounding victory tapped anti-American populism. Mr Sharif must now navigate a strategic relationship that makes different demands.The Taliban, similarly, may give Mr Sharif a few months of peace but, because its agenda and that of Pakistan are mutually irreconcilable, they may well turn their guns on the Punjab. Mr Sharif has to prove that a civilian-led government is up to these challenges.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: change of guard | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-05-03T20:56:56Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Any number of people had an interest in killing the Pakistani prosecutor investigating the murder of the former prime minister Benazir Bhutto. Chaudhry Zulfiqar Ali represented the Federal Investigation Agency which has implicated the former military leader Pervez Musharraf in the security arrangements that led to Ms Bhutto's death. But the prosecutor was also involved in the trial of seven members of Lashkar-e-Taiba, accused of orchestrating the Mumbai attacks in 2008.The brave fallen prosecutor had therefore three potent foes: Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (the Pakistani Taliban known as the TTP) who are thought to have killed Bhutto; Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT); and, standing behind both, the Pakistan army's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). LeT was founded with help from the ISI. The army says it has cut all links with the group, although its alleged leader, Muhammad Hafiz Saeed, lives openly in Lahore. They claim, too, they have no control over the Pakistani Taliban, although again few believe that all connections have been severed, despite the fact LeT have repeatedly attacked military targets. The murder took place in a suburb of the capital Islamabad which is ringed by a security cordon. That only adds to the suspicion of collusion.The killing therefore set any number of conspiracy theories going: that the military had been alarmed by Musharraf's arrest and imprisonment since returning to Pakistan; that they would lose face if their former commander were held accountable for security failings involved in Bhutto's murder; that this was a message being sent to Nawaz Sharif, the likely winner of the forthcoming election, and his chief justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, two of Musharraf's arch enemies, as the case against the former military leader hots up. No one will ever know. No one has been convicted of the murder of Ms Bhutto and it is more than likely that the same impunity will exist for the killer of the prosecutor pursuing the case.This has long since ceased to be a free election, in the sense that three parties can not campaign. Since the Taliban declared the elections to be part of an un-Islamic system which serves only infidels and the enemies of Islam, the Pakistan People's party (PPP), the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) and the Awami National party (ANP) have ceased holding rallies. Human Rights Watch now puts the tally at over 80 killed and 350 injured in gun and bomb attacks on meetings and election offices.This may be Pakistan's first transition from one democratically elected government to another. But all politicians are reminded every day that they exist in the shadows of darker and more powerful forces.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Benazir Bhutto", "Pervez Musharraf", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: gun law | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-27T19:45:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Three months after he came to power, Nawaz Sharif's counter-terrorism policy is in tatters. He was elected on a promise to hold peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban. An all-parties conference called on the prime minister to initiate a dialogue with all \"stakeholders\". The response of some of those with an interest and concern in the outcome (the dictionary definition) was to blow up 81 Christian worshippers outside a church in Peshawar on Sunday and follow that up yesterday by bombing a bus carrying government employees in the same province, killing at least 17 people. Although Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP) denied involvement in one of the worst attacks ever made on the Christian minority in the country, a previously unknown group, going under the Taliban umbrella, did claim responsibility.Although Christians are frequently targeted \u2013 in March, a mob swarmed through Lahore's Joseph Colony, setting 150 houses ablaze over alleged blasphemy charges against one resident \u2013 they are by no means the only minority to reap the full force of fundamentalist fury. Since last year, over 750 Shia Muslims have been killed in targeted attacks across Pakistan, many from the Hazaras in Balochistan. Figures like these have by now lost all meaning. Since 2001, well over 40,000 Pakistanis have perished in this maelstrom. It is the responsibility of any government, let alone a popularly elected civilian one, to attempt to halt this weekly carnage. Mr Sharif's decision to release Abdul Ghani Baradar, the Taliban's former second-in-command, to initiate a peace process between Kabul and the Afghan Taliban, was rightly welcomed. That war, as we have said many times, can only be solved at the negotiating table, and Pakistan's involvement is essential. The drone attacks, which account for up to 3,000 deaths (although these figures are disputed, too), only prolong the agony.But there is a big distance to be travelled from that position to pretending that the Pakistani state can accommodate the agenda of the TTP, al-Qaida and other militant groups. It is also Mr Sharif's responsibility to protect religious minorities and uphold basic rights, as Human Rights Watch said in its recent letter to him. The assumption that buying space for the Afghan Taliban is going to help with the TTP is erroneous. The public discourse in Pakistan suffers from a false binary that the TTP is a function of the drone strikes. The challenge it poses the state is more fundamental than that. Fundamentalism is a product of decades of official complicity, cowardice and appeasement. Sooner or later, Mr Sharif will be forced to realise that. Until then, he is merely kicking the can down the road.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan: kicking the can down the road | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-27T19:45:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Three months after he came to power, Nawaz Sharif's counter-terrorism policy is in tatters. He was elected on a promise to hold peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban. An all-parties conference called on the prime minister to initiate a dialogue with all \"stakeholders\". The response of some of those with an interest and concern in the outcome (the dictionary definition) was to blow up 81 Christian worshippers outside a church in Peshawar on Sunday and follow that up yesterday by bombing a bus carrying government employees in the same province, killing at least 17 people. Although Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP) denied involvement in one of the worst attacks ever made on the Christian minority in the country, a previously unknown group, going under the Taliban umbrella, did claim responsibility.Although Christians are frequently targeted \u2013 in March, a mob swarmed through Lahore's Joseph Colony, setting 150 houses ablaze over alleged blasphemy charges against one resident \u2013 they are by no means the only minority to reap the full force of fundamentalist fury. Since last year, over 750 Shia Muslims have been killed in targeted attacks across Pakistan, many from the Hazaras in Balochistan. Figures like these have by now lost all meaning. Since 2001, well over 40,000 Pakistanis have perished in this maelstrom. It is the responsibility of any government, let alone a popularly elected civilian one, to attempt to halt this weekly carnage. Mr Sharif's decision to release Abdul Ghani Baradar, the Taliban's former second-in-command, to initiate a peace process between Kabul and the Afghan Taliban, was rightly welcomed. That war, as we have said many times, can only be solved at the negotiating table, and Pakistan's involvement is essential. The drone attacks, which account for up to 3,000 deaths (although these figures are disputed, too), only prolong the agony.But there is a big distance to be travelled from that position to pretending that the Pakistani state can accommodate the agenda of the TTP, al-Qaida and other militant groups. It is also Mr Sharif's responsibility to protect religious minorities and uphold basic rights, as Human Rights Watch said in its recent letter to him. The assumption that buying space for the Afghan Taliban is going to help with the TTP is erroneous. The public discourse in Pakistan suffers from a false binary that the TTP is a function of the drone strikes. The challenge it poses the state is more fundamental than that. Fundamentalism is a product of decades of official complicity, cowardice and appeasement. Sooner or later, Mr Sharif will be forced to realise that. Until then, he is merely kicking the can down the road.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan: kicking the can down the road | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-31T04:32:57Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "What was the occasion?My family and friends all love food, so there's always an excuse to have people over. This sunny afternoon, I\u00a0invited my mum, uncle and cousins and a few friends who live locally. The weather forecast for the weekend was bright and sunny, so we decided to have an Indian-style afternoon tea in the garden \u2013 a mix of sweet and savoury foods, served with masala chai\u00a0and lime and mint water.What was on the menu?In our family, the unspoken rule when it comes to afternoon tea is to make enough food for any last-minute guests, so I always make plenty of dishes. Onion bhajiya are a perennial favourite, though. My twist is to really pack in the onion, so there's less batter, and to fry them for a little longer so they caramelise. I always serve them with a hot and sweet chutney, which is my dad's recipe. I feel like I'm reliving my childhood when I make it \u2013 it's a rock-steady companion that never fails to finish off a dish nicely.Unlike British afternoon tea, where you sip your chosen brew throughout, masala chai is served with the savoury bhajiya and vegetable pakoras. If you take a bite of the bhajiya, then a sip of chai, the tea intensifies the taste of the cumin and nigella seeds in the bhajiya,\u00a0and the flavours really pop \u2013 it's just heavenly.One of the sweet dishes I always make is badaam phirni; it's like a more elegant cousin of traditional rice pudding. It can be served either hot or cold and it has a lovely smooth texture that's complemented by some crunch from the crushed pistachios on top. As\u00a0kids, we would always eat halwa, and the adults would eat phirni \u2013 it was a sign that you'd grown up when you could have some. It's a much more sophisticated taste than halwa, so you can only really eat it in small amounts.What did you talk about?The weather, of course! We all agreed how nice it was to spend so much time outside this summer.My mum and uncle reminisced about eating halwa in the food bazaars of Pakistan, and talked about their favourite street-food vendors. Nowadays, street food is hugely popular, but for them, growing up in Pakistan during the 1940s and 1950s, it\u00a0was just how everyone ate. A lot of my recipes have been handed down to me\u00a0from my uncle and my father, so my uncle gave his verdict on the\u00a0dishes, too!We also discussed the menu for my next \"cash 'n' curry\" supper club. I\u00a0cook around four or five courses. We\u00a0don't provide a guide price, we just ask diners to pay what they think the meal is worth into a blind collection at the end. We then give all the money to a project that helps people living in slums in Chennai. A recent cash 'n' curry night raised enough money to fund a medical programme for an entire year, supporting a nurse, a\u00a0visiting doctor, and basic medicine for more than 40 families, while another evening raised enough cash to put 12 young people through full-time education for a year. We don't take a\u00a0cut for our time, or the ingredients \u2013 at\u00a0the end of the evening we just count it up and know that whatever money is there will change people's lives.My take on the classic savoury snack, served with my father, Victor's, chutney \u2013 affectionately known as\u00a0Vicki chutney.Serves 6 150g gram flour\u00bd tsp bicarbonate of soda2 tsp cumin seeds2 tsp nigella seeds5-6 large onions, finely slicedVegetable oil, for fryingSaltFor the chutney\u00bd onion, peeled and roughly chopped1 tomato, roughly chopped2 tsp tamarind concentrate1 green chilli2 cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped1 garlic clove1 handful of mint and coriander leaves1 tbsp flaked coconut50ml waterJuice of \u00bd lemonSalt1 In a big bowl, tip in the flour and add enough water to create a thick batter. Sprinkle in the bicarbonate of soda and both types of seeds with some salt to season. Put in the onions and mix well.2 Using a large wok or deep frying pan, pour in the oil to a depth of 2-3cm and heat to a medium-high temperature. Drop in a cumin seed. If it sizzles, the oil is ready. Using a ladle, gently lower spoonfuls of the mix into the oil. Fry for around 4 minutes until golden brown, then drain on kitchen paper.3 To make the chutney, put all the ingredients in a blender, then blitz until smooth. The result will be a\u00a0sharp, fresh-scented mix.This pudding is best presented in small bowls with little spoons.Serves 4-620 almonds or 4 tbsp flaked almonds600ml whole milk4 tbsp rice flour4 tbsp unrefined sugar10 saffron strands1 tsp ground cardamom 12 pistachios, crushed1 Blanch the almonds and remove their skins. Alternatively, use flaked almonds. Use a hand blender to grind the almonds in 120ml milk to produce a paste. Transfer to a bowl and mix in the rice flour.2 In a saucepan, bring the rest of the milk to the boil and tip in the sugar, stirring until it dissolves. Spoon 1\u00a0tbsp hot milk into a small bowl and steep with the saffron. Strain this back into the saucepan and add the almond paste. Gently stir until the mix thickens and becomes creamy, then shake in the cardamom powder. Cool, then sprinkle pistachios over the dessert and chill for an hour.The food served at afternoon teas will vary with our moods, but the masala chai recipe never does.Serves 8 1.1 litres milk1.4 litres water2cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped10 green cardamom pods, crushed6 cloves, coarsely ground1 tsp ground fennel seeds1 cinnamon stick3 English breakfast tea bagsSugar, to taste1 Heat the milk, water, ginger and spices in a pan, letting it simmer for about 15 minutes until the volume has\u00a0reduced a little. The liquid will smell deliciously fragrant.2 Take off the heat and drop in the teabags, allowing it to brew for a couple of minutes, or longer if you like it stronger. Strain through a sieve into tea glasses or cups and sweeten according to your taste.Ivor Peters is the author of The Urban Rajah's Curry Memoirs (Headline); urbanrajah.com", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Afternoon tea by way of Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-09-27T19:45:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Three months after he came to power, Nawaz Sharif's counter-terrorism policy is in tatters. He was elected on a promise to hold peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban. An all-parties conference called on the prime minister to initiate a dialogue with all \"stakeholders\". The response of some of those with an interest and concern in the outcome (the dictionary definition) was to blow up 81 Christian worshippers outside a church in Peshawar on Sunday and follow that up yesterday by bombing a bus carrying government employees in the same province, killing at least 17 people. Although Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP) denied involvement in one of the worst attacks ever made on the Christian minority in the country, a previously unknown group, going under the Taliban umbrella, did claim responsibility.Although Christians are frequently targeted \u2013 in March, a mob swarmed through Lahore's Joseph Colony, setting 150 houses ablaze over alleged blasphemy charges against one resident \u2013 they are by no means the only minority to reap the full force of fundamentalist fury. Since last year, over 750 Shia Muslims have been killed in targeted attacks across Pakistan, many from the Hazaras in Balochistan. Figures like these have by now lost all meaning. Since 2001, well over 40,000 Pakistanis have perished in this maelstrom. It is the responsibility of any government, let alone a popularly elected civilian one, to attempt to halt this weekly carnage. Mr Sharif's decision to release Abdul Ghani Baradar, the Taliban's former second-in-command, to initiate a peace process between Kabul and the Afghan Taliban, was rightly welcomed. That war, as we have said many times, can only be solved at the negotiating table, and Pakistan's involvement is essential. The drone attacks, which account for up to 3,000 deaths (although these figures are disputed, too), only prolong the agony.But there is a big distance to be travelled from that position to pretending that the Pakistani state can accommodate the agenda of the TTP, al-Qaida and other militant groups. It is also Mr Sharif's responsibility to protect religious minorities and uphold basic rights, as Human Rights Watch said in its recent letter to him. The assumption that buying space for the Afghan Taliban is going to help with the TTP is erroneous. The public discourse in Pakistan suffers from a false binary that the TTP is a function of the drone strikes. The challenge it poses the state is more fundamental than that. Fundamentalism is a product of decades of official complicity, cowardice and appeasement. Sooner or later, Mr Sharif will be forced to realise that. Until then, he is merely kicking the can down the road.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan: kicking the can down the road | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-31T04:32:57Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "What was the occasion?My family and friends all love food, so there's always an excuse to have people over. This sunny afternoon, I\u00a0invited my mum, uncle and cousins and a few friends who live locally. The weather forecast for the weekend was bright and sunny, so we decided to have an Indian-style afternoon tea in the garden \u2013 a mix of sweet and savoury foods, served with masala chai\u00a0and lime and mint water.What was on the menu?In our family, the unspoken rule when it comes to afternoon tea is to make enough food for any last-minute guests, so I always make plenty of dishes. Onion bhajiya are a perennial favourite, though. My twist is to really pack in the onion, so there's less batter, and to fry them for a little longer so they caramelise. I always serve them with a hot and sweet chutney, which is my dad's recipe. I feel like I'm reliving my childhood when I make it \u2013 it's a rock-steady companion that never fails to finish off a dish nicely.Unlike British afternoon tea, where you sip your chosen brew throughout, masala chai is served with the savoury bhajiya and vegetable pakoras. If you take a bite of the bhajiya, then a sip of chai, the tea intensifies the taste of the cumin and nigella seeds in the bhajiya,\u00a0and the flavours really pop \u2013 it's just heavenly.One of the sweet dishes I always make is badaam phirni; it's like a more elegant cousin of traditional rice pudding. It can be served either hot or cold and it has a lovely smooth texture that's complemented by some crunch from the crushed pistachios on top. As\u00a0kids, we would always eat halwa, and the adults would eat phirni \u2013 it was a sign that you'd grown up when you could have some. It's a much more sophisticated taste than halwa, so you can only really eat it in small amounts.What did you talk about?The weather, of course! We all agreed how nice it was to spend so much time outside this summer.My mum and uncle reminisced about eating halwa in the food bazaars of Pakistan, and talked about their favourite street-food vendors. Nowadays, street food is hugely popular, but for them, growing up in Pakistan during the 1940s and 1950s, it\u00a0was just how everyone ate. A lot of my recipes have been handed down to me\u00a0from my uncle and my father, so my uncle gave his verdict on the\u00a0dishes, too!We also discussed the menu for my next \"cash 'n' curry\" supper club. I\u00a0cook around four or five courses. We\u00a0don't provide a guide price, we just ask diners to pay what they think the meal is worth into a blind collection at the end. We then give all the money to a project that helps people living in slums in Chennai. A recent cash 'n' curry night raised enough money to fund a medical programme for an entire year, supporting a nurse, a\u00a0visiting doctor, and basic medicine for more than 40 families, while another evening raised enough cash to put 12 young people through full-time education for a year. We don't take a\u00a0cut for our time, or the ingredients \u2013 at\u00a0the end of the evening we just count it up and know that whatever money is there will change people's lives.My take on the classic savoury snack, served with my father, Victor's, chutney \u2013 affectionately known as\u00a0Vicki chutney.Serves 6 150g gram flour\u00bd tsp bicarbonate of soda2 tsp cumin seeds2 tsp nigella seeds5-6 large onions, finely slicedVegetable oil, for fryingSaltFor the chutney\u00bd onion, peeled and roughly chopped1 tomato, roughly chopped2 tsp tamarind concentrate1 green chilli2 cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped1 garlic clove1 handful of mint and coriander leaves1 tbsp flaked coconut50ml waterJuice of \u00bd lemonSalt1 In a big bowl, tip in the flour and add enough water to create a thick batter. Sprinkle in the bicarbonate of soda and both types of seeds with some salt to season. Put in the onions and mix well.2 Using a large wok or deep frying pan, pour in the oil to a depth of 2-3cm and heat to a medium-high temperature. Drop in a cumin seed. If it sizzles, the oil is ready. Using a ladle, gently lower spoonfuls of the mix into the oil. Fry for around 4 minutes until golden brown, then drain on kitchen paper.3 To make the chutney, put all the ingredients in a blender, then blitz until smooth. The result will be a\u00a0sharp, fresh-scented mix.This pudding is best presented in small bowls with little spoons.Serves 4-620 almonds or 4 tbsp flaked almonds600ml whole milk4 tbsp rice flour4 tbsp unrefined sugar10 saffron strands1 tsp ground cardamom 12 pistachios, crushed1 Blanch the almonds and remove their skins. Alternatively, use flaked almonds. Use a hand blender to grind the almonds in 120ml milk to produce a paste. Transfer to a bowl and mix in the rice flour.2 In a saucepan, bring the rest of the milk to the boil and tip in the sugar, stirring until it dissolves. Spoon 1\u00a0tbsp hot milk into a small bowl and steep with the saffron. Strain this back into the saucepan and add the almond paste. Gently stir until the mix thickens and becomes creamy, then shake in the cardamom powder. Cool, then sprinkle pistachios over the dessert and chill for an hour.The food served at afternoon teas will vary with our moods, but the masala chai recipe never does.Serves 8 1.1 litres milk1.4 litres water2cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped10 green cardamom pods, crushed6 cloves, coarsely ground1 tsp ground fennel seeds1 cinnamon stick3 English breakfast tea bagsSugar, to taste1 Heat the milk, water, ginger and spices in a pan, letting it simmer for about 15 minutes until the volume has\u00a0reduced a little. The liquid will smell deliciously fragrant.2 Take off the heat and drop in the teabags, allowing it to brew for a couple of minutes, or longer if you like it stronger. Strain through a sieve into tea glasses or cups and sweeten according to your taste.Ivor Peters is the author of The Urban Rajah's Curry Memoirs (Headline); urbanrajah.com", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Afternoon tea by way of Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-08-29T14:06:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani administrator has overturned a judgment sentencing a doctor who helped CIA agents hunting the al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden to 33 years in prison.Lawyers for Shakil Afridi, who was convicted of treason in May last year, played down his chances of release, but experts said the decision could be related to a recent improvement in difficult relations between the US and Pakistan. John Kerry, the US secretary of state, raised the issue of Afridi's imprisonment when visiting Islamabad in July.Michael Kugelman, south Asia expert at the Woodrow Wilson Centre in Washington DC, said: \"The US considers this a priority issue. It is a very dysfunctional relationship but has perhaps stabilised to the point where Pakistan is ready to act on a request like this.\"Afridi, a former public health officer who reportedly did not know exactly whom the CIA was trying to target when he agreed to work for them, was arrested following the night-time raid on Bin Laden's compound on 2 May 2011.As first revealed by the Guardian, in the weeks running up to the assault by US navy seals Afridi ran a bogus hepatitis B vaccination campaign for the CIA, designed to collect blood samples in the hope of finding people who matched the Bin Laden family DNA. A match would have helped to definitively identify the extremist leader.Afridi, 49, was not charged over that alleged offence but for his links with Lashkar-e-Islam, an Islamic militant group active in Khyber agency. He was found guilty of conspiring against the state.Sahibzada Mohammad Anees, who oversees the implementation of local laws in Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal agencies, ruled that the official who heard the case exceeded his authority when handing down the sentence last year.That judgment was passed in consultation with tribal elders in Khyber agency, which lies between the frontier city of Peshawar and the border with Afghanistan. Anees ordered a new trial.Afridi's sentence angered the US, which withheld \u00a322m in aid for Pakistan in retaliation. The then US defence secretary, Leon Panetta, publicly stated that Afridi \"was not in any way doing anything that would have undermined Pakistan\". However, it was welcomed by Pakistani security agencies who said the physician had got what he deserved.There have been signs that Pakistan's civilian bureaucracy and courts are increasingly prepared to challenge the country's powerful security establishment.A court in Peshawar recently ordered authorities to pay compensation to the mother of a man who was abducted and killed, reportedly by Pakistani security agencies.In July an unpublished report by a committee overseen by a former top judge seeking to answer questions as to how Bin Laden apparently remained undetected in Pakistan for nearly a decade was leaked to the media.It was fiercely critical of police and intelligence agencies, calling for a wholesale change in attitudes and working practices.However, more than two years after the killing of Bin Laden, Afridi is the only person to have been arrested in connection with the event.The raid, conducted by US special forces transported from Afghanistan in stealth helicopters that evaded Pakistan's air defences, was seen as a humiliation for the country's military establishment. It severely undermined relations between the US and Pakistan.Afridi's lawyer, Samiullah Afridi, said he was not hopeful about any retrial. \"The [original] decision was announced by an assistant political agent, who is an administrator, and it is going back to him [to decide again].\"We do not have any expectations because whatever happens will be according to what the [security] agencies want. We want that Dr Shakil Afridi should be tried by a lower-level judge, at the very least,\" he said.The appeal was heard by a bureaucrat because under the colonial-era laws in place in Pakistan's tribal agencies the decisions of political agents, the officials charged with administering justice in the agencies, cannot be heard in a court of law.The lawyer Afridi said he had been unable to contact his client and inform him of the ruling.\"His lawyers and his family have not been able to meet him for at least eight to nine months, but perhaps he has seen the news if it has appeared in the media,\" the lawyer, who is not related to his client, told the Guardian.The plan to obtain DNA samples from Osama bin Laden's family to confirm his presence in the Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad was set in motion after US intelligence agencies tracked a courier known to be linked to al-Qaida to a large, non-descript compound with high security where, they learned, a tall man with an extensive family lived.The agency monitored the compound from satellites and through surveillance from a CIA safehouse nearby, but wanted further confirmation that Bin Laden was present before mounting a risky operation inside another country. DNA from any of the Bin Laden children or grandchildren in the compound could be compared with a sample from the al-Qaida leader's sister, who died in Boston in 2010, to provide evidence that the family was present.So agents approached Dr Shahid Afridi, the health official in charge of Khyber, part of a tribal area that runs along the Afghan border close to Abbottabad. He agreed to help. The doctor went to Abbottabad in March 2011, claiming to have procured funds to give free vaccinations to locals against hepatitis B. Bypassing local health service officials, he paid generous sums to low-ranking local government health workers to administer vaccines door to door in Bin Laden's neighbourhood.One consequence of the operation has been to deepen existing suspicions among many in Pakistan that polio vaccines are part of a western plot against Islam. This has been described as a major setback in efforts to tackle the disease.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Osama bin Laden", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan overturns Bin Laden doctor's jail sentence"},{"date": "2013-09-27T19:45:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Three months after he came to power, Nawaz Sharif's counter-terrorism policy is in tatters. He was elected on a promise to hold peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban. An all-parties conference called on the prime minister to initiate a dialogue with all \"stakeholders\". The response of some of those with an interest and concern in the outcome (the dictionary definition) was to blow up 81 Christian worshippers outside a church in Peshawar on Sunday and follow that up yesterday by bombing a bus carrying government employees in the same province, killing at least 17 people. Although Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP) denied involvement in one of the worst attacks ever made on the Christian minority in the country, a previously unknown group, going under the Taliban umbrella, did claim responsibility.Although Christians are frequently targeted \u2013 in March, a mob swarmed through Lahore's Joseph Colony, setting 150 houses ablaze over alleged blasphemy charges against one resident \u2013 they are by no means the only minority to reap the full force of fundamentalist fury. Since last year, over 750 Shia Muslims have been killed in targeted attacks across Pakistan, many from the Hazaras in Balochistan. Figures like these have by now lost all meaning. Since 2001, well over 40,000 Pakistanis have perished in this maelstrom. It is the responsibility of any government, let alone a popularly elected civilian one, to attempt to halt this weekly carnage. Mr Sharif's decision to release Abdul Ghani Baradar, the Taliban's former second-in-command, to initiate a peace process between Kabul and the Afghan Taliban, was rightly welcomed. That war, as we have said many times, can only be solved at the negotiating table, and Pakistan's involvement is essential. The drone attacks, which account for up to 3,000 deaths (although these figures are disputed, too), only prolong the agony.But there is a big distance to be travelled from that position to pretending that the Pakistani state can accommodate the agenda of the TTP, al-Qaida and other militant groups. It is also Mr Sharif's responsibility to protect religious minorities and uphold basic rights, as Human Rights Watch said in its recent letter to him. The assumption that buying space for the Afghan Taliban is going to help with the TTP is erroneous. The public discourse in Pakistan suffers from a false binary that the TTP is a function of the drone strikes. The challenge it poses the state is more fundamental than that. Fundamentalism is a product of decades of official complicity, cowardice and appeasement. Sooner or later, Mr Sharif will be forced to realise that. Until then, he is merely kicking the can down the road.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan: kicking the can down the road | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-31T04:32:57Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "What was the occasion?My family and friends all love food, so there's always an excuse to have people over. This sunny afternoon, I\u00a0invited my mum, uncle and cousins and a few friends who live locally. The weather forecast for the weekend was bright and sunny, so we decided to have an Indian-style afternoon tea in the garden \u2013 a mix of sweet and savoury foods, served with masala chai\u00a0and lime and mint water.What was on the menu?In our family, the unspoken rule when it comes to afternoon tea is to make enough food for any last-minute guests, so I always make plenty of dishes. Onion bhajiya are a perennial favourite, though. My twist is to really pack in the onion, so there's less batter, and to fry them for a little longer so they caramelise. I always serve them with a hot and sweet chutney, which is my dad's recipe. I feel like I'm reliving my childhood when I make it \u2013 it's a rock-steady companion that never fails to finish off a dish nicely.Unlike British afternoon tea, where you sip your chosen brew throughout, masala chai is served with the savoury bhajiya and vegetable pakoras. If you take a bite of the bhajiya, then a sip of chai, the tea intensifies the taste of the cumin and nigella seeds in the bhajiya,\u00a0and the flavours really pop \u2013 it's just heavenly.One of the sweet dishes I always make is badaam phirni; it's like a more elegant cousin of traditional rice pudding. It can be served either hot or cold and it has a lovely smooth texture that's complemented by some crunch from the crushed pistachios on top. As\u00a0kids, we would always eat halwa, and the adults would eat phirni \u2013 it was a sign that you'd grown up when you could have some. It's a much more sophisticated taste than halwa, so you can only really eat it in small amounts.What did you talk about?The weather, of course! We all agreed how nice it was to spend so much time outside this summer.My mum and uncle reminisced about eating halwa in the food bazaars of Pakistan, and talked about their favourite street-food vendors. Nowadays, street food is hugely popular, but for them, growing up in Pakistan during the 1940s and 1950s, it\u00a0was just how everyone ate. A lot of my recipes have been handed down to me\u00a0from my uncle and my father, so my uncle gave his verdict on the\u00a0dishes, too!We also discussed the menu for my next \"cash 'n' curry\" supper club. I\u00a0cook around four or five courses. We\u00a0don't provide a guide price, we just ask diners to pay what they think the meal is worth into a blind collection at the end. We then give all the money to a project that helps people living in slums in Chennai. A recent cash 'n' curry night raised enough money to fund a medical programme for an entire year, supporting a nurse, a\u00a0visiting doctor, and basic medicine for more than 40 families, while another evening raised enough cash to put 12 young people through full-time education for a year. We don't take a\u00a0cut for our time, or the ingredients \u2013 at\u00a0the end of the evening we just count it up and know that whatever money is there will change people's lives.My take on the classic savoury snack, served with my father, Victor's, chutney \u2013 affectionately known as\u00a0Vicki chutney.Serves 6 150g gram flour\u00bd tsp bicarbonate of soda2 tsp cumin seeds2 tsp nigella seeds5-6 large onions, finely slicedVegetable oil, for fryingSaltFor the chutney\u00bd onion, peeled and roughly chopped1 tomato, roughly chopped2 tsp tamarind concentrate1 green chilli2 cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped1 garlic clove1 handful of mint and coriander leaves1 tbsp flaked coconut50ml waterJuice of \u00bd lemonSalt1 In a big bowl, tip in the flour and add enough water to create a thick batter. Sprinkle in the bicarbonate of soda and both types of seeds with some salt to season. Put in the onions and mix well.2 Using a large wok or deep frying pan, pour in the oil to a depth of 2-3cm and heat to a medium-high temperature. Drop in a cumin seed. If it sizzles, the oil is ready. Using a ladle, gently lower spoonfuls of the mix into the oil. Fry for around 4 minutes until golden brown, then drain on kitchen paper.3 To make the chutney, put all the ingredients in a blender, then blitz until smooth. The result will be a\u00a0sharp, fresh-scented mix.This pudding is best presented in small bowls with little spoons.Serves 4-620 almonds or 4 tbsp flaked almonds600ml whole milk4 tbsp rice flour4 tbsp unrefined sugar10 saffron strands1 tsp ground cardamom 12 pistachios, crushed1 Blanch the almonds and remove their skins. Alternatively, use flaked almonds. Use a hand blender to grind the almonds in 120ml milk to produce a paste. Transfer to a bowl and mix in the rice flour.2 In a saucepan, bring the rest of the milk to the boil and tip in the sugar, stirring until it dissolves. Spoon 1\u00a0tbsp hot milk into a small bowl and steep with the saffron. Strain this back into the saucepan and add the almond paste. Gently stir until the mix thickens and becomes creamy, then shake in the cardamom powder. Cool, then sprinkle pistachios over the dessert and chill for an hour.The food served at afternoon teas will vary with our moods, but the masala chai recipe never does.Serves 8 1.1 litres milk1.4 litres water2cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped10 green cardamom pods, crushed6 cloves, coarsely ground1 tsp ground fennel seeds1 cinnamon stick3 English breakfast tea bagsSugar, to taste1 Heat the milk, water, ginger and spices in a pan, letting it simmer for about 15 minutes until the volume has\u00a0reduced a little. The liquid will smell deliciously fragrant.2 Take off the heat and drop in the teabags, allowing it to brew for a couple of minutes, or longer if you like it stronger. Strain through a sieve into tea glasses or cups and sweeten according to your taste.Ivor Peters is the author of The Urban Rajah's Curry Memoirs (Headline); urbanrajah.com", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Afternoon tea by way of Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-08-29T14:06:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani administrator has overturned a judgment sentencing a doctor who helped CIA agents hunting the al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden to 33 years in prison.Lawyers for Shakil Afridi, who was convicted of treason in May last year, played down his chances of release, but experts said the decision could be related to a recent improvement in difficult relations between the US and Pakistan. John Kerry, the US secretary of state, raised the issue of Afridi's imprisonment when visiting Islamabad in July.Michael Kugelman, south Asia expert at the Woodrow Wilson Centre in Washington DC, said: \"The US considers this a priority issue. It is a very dysfunctional relationship but has perhaps stabilised to the point where Pakistan is ready to act on a request like this.\"Afridi, a former public health officer who reportedly did not know exactly whom the CIA was trying to target when he agreed to work for them, was arrested following the night-time raid on Bin Laden's compound on 2 May 2011.As first revealed by the Guardian, in the weeks running up to the assault by US navy seals Afridi ran a bogus hepatitis B vaccination campaign for the CIA, designed to collect blood samples in the hope of finding people who matched the Bin Laden family DNA. A match would have helped to definitively identify the extremist leader.Afridi, 49, was not charged over that alleged offence but for his links with Lashkar-e-Islam, an Islamic militant group active in Khyber agency. He was found guilty of conspiring against the state.Sahibzada Mohammad Anees, who oversees the implementation of local laws in Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal agencies, ruled that the official who heard the case exceeded his authority when handing down the sentence last year.That judgment was passed in consultation with tribal elders in Khyber agency, which lies between the frontier city of Peshawar and the border with Afghanistan. Anees ordered a new trial.Afridi's sentence angered the US, which withheld \u00a322m in aid for Pakistan in retaliation. The then US defence secretary, Leon Panetta, publicly stated that Afridi \"was not in any way doing anything that would have undermined Pakistan\". However, it was welcomed by Pakistani security agencies who said the physician had got what he deserved.There have been signs that Pakistan's civilian bureaucracy and courts are increasingly prepared to challenge the country's powerful security establishment.A court in Peshawar recently ordered authorities to pay compensation to the mother of a man who was abducted and killed, reportedly by Pakistani security agencies.In July an unpublished report by a committee overseen by a former top judge seeking to answer questions as to how Bin Laden apparently remained undetected in Pakistan for nearly a decade was leaked to the media.It was fiercely critical of police and intelligence agencies, calling for a wholesale change in attitudes and working practices.However, more than two years after the killing of Bin Laden, Afridi is the only person to have been arrested in connection with the event.The raid, conducted by US special forces transported from Afghanistan in stealth helicopters that evaded Pakistan's air defences, was seen as a humiliation for the country's military establishment. It severely undermined relations between the US and Pakistan.Afridi's lawyer, Samiullah Afridi, said he was not hopeful about any retrial. \"The [original] decision was announced by an assistant political agent, who is an administrator, and it is going back to him [to decide again].\"We do not have any expectations because whatever happens will be according to what the [security] agencies want. We want that Dr Shakil Afridi should be tried by a lower-level judge, at the very least,\" he said.The appeal was heard by a bureaucrat because under the colonial-era laws in place in Pakistan's tribal agencies the decisions of political agents, the officials charged with administering justice in the agencies, cannot be heard in a court of law.The lawyer Afridi said he had been unable to contact his client and inform him of the ruling.\"His lawyers and his family have not been able to meet him for at least eight to nine months, but perhaps he has seen the news if it has appeared in the media,\" the lawyer, who is not related to his client, told the Guardian.The plan to obtain DNA samples from Osama bin Laden's family to confirm his presence in the Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad was set in motion after US intelligence agencies tracked a courier known to be linked to al-Qaida to a large, non-descript compound with high security where, they learned, a tall man with an extensive family lived.The agency monitored the compound from satellites and through surveillance from a CIA safehouse nearby, but wanted further confirmation that Bin Laden was present before mounting a risky operation inside another country. DNA from any of the Bin Laden children or grandchildren in the compound could be compared with a sample from the al-Qaida leader's sister, who died in Boston in 2010, to provide evidence that the family was present.So agents approached Dr Shahid Afridi, the health official in charge of Khyber, part of a tribal area that runs along the Afghan border close to Abbottabad. He agreed to help. The doctor went to Abbottabad in March 2011, claiming to have procured funds to give free vaccinations to locals against hepatitis B. Bypassing local health service officials, he paid generous sums to low-ranking local government health workers to administer vaccines door to door in Bin Laden's neighbourhood.One consequence of the operation has been to deepen existing suspicions among many in Pakistan that polio vaccines are part of a western plot against Islam. This has been described as a major setback in efforts to tackle the disease.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Osama bin Laden", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan overturns Bin Laden doctor's jail sentence"},{"date": "2013-08-22T16:19:22Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The battle to eliminate polio has hit apparent setbacks in northern Pakistan, where new cases are being reported, and in Israel, where the discovery of the virus in the sewage system has led to a mass immunisation campaign.Fourteen suspected cases of polio have been discovered in Pakistan's insurgency-racked north-west, where Taliban militants have banned vaccination workers.Although the country is awaiting the result of tests on stool samples from the affected children, a surge in cases could strike a major blow to the government's intense efforts to exit the small group of nations that has failed to eradicate the disease.All but two of the children were from North Waziristan, the most troubled of the seven tribal \"agencies\" that comprise the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, a semi-autonomous region of Pakistan that borders Afghanistan and is a hotbed for militancy.The majority of strikes by the CIA's unmanned drone campaign occur in North Waziristan, a situation that last year prompted Taliban commander Hafiz Gul Bahadur to block the anti-polio campaign in the agency. Militants in other areas have enacted similar bans, saying they will lift them only when drone strikes end.In North and South Waziristan, more than 260,000 under fives have not been immunised since June 2012. In tribal, highly conservative parts of the country health workers are regarded with intense suspicion. Popular fears are often stoked by local religious leaders who claim the vaccines are part of a western plot to sterilise Muslims.Elsewhere in the country, monsoon floods, insecurity and a string of byelections have forced authorities to postpone a vaccination drive originally scheduled to begin on Monday.According to the global polio eradication initiative, 181 cases had been recorded worldwide this year between January and 13 August. A total of 71 were in Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan, countries where the disease is endemic.Bruce Aylward, who leads the World Health Organisation's global polio eradication campaign, pointed out that the actions of Gul Bahadur were not in line with the expressed views of the Afghan Taliban, which published a statement on its website two months ago about the importance of vaccinating children against polio (with the rider that it should be done in a manner appropriate for Muslims).Aylward said some of the reported cases were false alarms, with tests showing that children's symptoms were not caused by the polio virus. But, he added, cases were inevitable. \"This is one of the very few areas in the world that is affected by polio where there is no vaccination ongoing,\" he said. \"The endgame in stopping transmission is getting vaccination into every affected area. If we are not vaccinating, we are not eradicating.\"Experts are hopeful that vaccination may resume. A year has passed since it was suspended, making it probable that the political impact will have diminished. And while a ban can continue indefinitely while there are no polio cases, local sensitivities may change if children become sick or are harmed by the disease.Aylward pointed to conflict-hit areas such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo and northern Nigeria, where vaccination has resumed. \"In each case, with time and understanding for the consequences of their own children, it has been possible to get a dialogue,\" he said.Meanwhile, Israel has launched a mass inoculation programme, aimed at reaching more than a million under-10s over the next three months, after one of the three strains of polio was detected in the country's sewage system.No one in Israel has developed the virus since the discovery of type one in the south of the country earlier this year. It has since spread to sewage systems in the centre and the north. Type one was identified in neighbouring Egypt in December.Drops containing vaccine against types one and three of the virus are being administered orally at health clinics. Israel routinely immunises children against polio, but this campaign aims to boost the level of protection.About 182,000 children were inoculated in the first three days. A legal petition against the move, on the grounds that it was unnecessary and could be harmful, was dismissed by the high court.The last outbreak of polio in Israel was 25 years ago, and Aylward said the situation there is different to that in Pakistan. Like most countries that have eliminated polio, Israel has switched from oral drops to the inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), which is injected. The IPV prevents the virus causing illness but, if children or adults contract it, it will still travel through the gut.Israel, which has excellent surveillance systems, discovered the virus in the sewage system in February, said Aylward, but that happens in many countries using IPV. What is unusual is that it did not disappear and has since been detected in other parts of the country.The virus in the sewage is not a threat to children who have been immunised, but it is to the estimated 6% who have not been. \"So far, they have been lucky \u2013 there are no cases,\" said Aylward. Without the vaccination campaign, however, it would be surprising if cases did not occur.", "tags": ["Global development", "Polio", "Vaccines and immunisation", "Health", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan and Israel hit by polio setback"},{"date": "2013-09-27T19:45:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Three months after he came to power, Nawaz Sharif's counter-terrorism policy is in tatters. He was elected on a promise to hold peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban. An all-parties conference called on the prime minister to initiate a dialogue with all \"stakeholders\". The response of some of those with an interest and concern in the outcome (the dictionary definition) was to blow up 81 Christian worshippers outside a church in Peshawar on Sunday and follow that up yesterday by bombing a bus carrying government employees in the same province, killing at least 17 people. Although Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP) denied involvement in one of the worst attacks ever made on the Christian minority in the country, a previously unknown group, going under the Taliban umbrella, did claim responsibility.Although Christians are frequently targeted \u2013 in March, a mob swarmed through Lahore's Joseph Colony, setting 150 houses ablaze over alleged blasphemy charges against one resident \u2013 they are by no means the only minority to reap the full force of fundamentalist fury. Since last year, over 750 Shia Muslims have been killed in targeted attacks across Pakistan, many from the Hazaras in Balochistan. Figures like these have by now lost all meaning. Since 2001, well over 40,000 Pakistanis have perished in this maelstrom. It is the responsibility of any government, let alone a popularly elected civilian one, to attempt to halt this weekly carnage. Mr Sharif's decision to release Abdul Ghani Baradar, the Taliban's former second-in-command, to initiate a peace process between Kabul and the Afghan Taliban, was rightly welcomed. That war, as we have said many times, can only be solved at the negotiating table, and Pakistan's involvement is essential. The drone attacks, which account for up to 3,000 deaths (although these figures are disputed, too), only prolong the agony.But there is a big distance to be travelled from that position to pretending that the Pakistani state can accommodate the agenda of the TTP, al-Qaida and other militant groups. It is also Mr Sharif's responsibility to protect religious minorities and uphold basic rights, as Human Rights Watch said in its recent letter to him. The assumption that buying space for the Afghan Taliban is going to help with the TTP is erroneous. The public discourse in Pakistan suffers from a false binary that the TTP is a function of the drone strikes. The challenge it poses the state is more fundamental than that. Fundamentalism is a product of decades of official complicity, cowardice and appeasement. Sooner or later, Mr Sharif will be forced to realise that. Until then, he is merely kicking the can down the road.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan: kicking the can down the road | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-31T04:32:57Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "What was the occasion?My family and friends all love food, so there's always an excuse to have people over. This sunny afternoon, I\u00a0invited my mum, uncle and cousins and a few friends who live locally. The weather forecast for the weekend was bright and sunny, so we decided to have an Indian-style afternoon tea in the garden \u2013 a mix of sweet and savoury foods, served with masala chai\u00a0and lime and mint water.What was on the menu?In our family, the unspoken rule when it comes to afternoon tea is to make enough food for any last-minute guests, so I always make plenty of dishes. Onion bhajiya are a perennial favourite, though. My twist is to really pack in the onion, so there's less batter, and to fry them for a little longer so they caramelise. I always serve them with a hot and sweet chutney, which is my dad's recipe. I feel like I'm reliving my childhood when I make it \u2013 it's a rock-steady companion that never fails to finish off a dish nicely.Unlike British afternoon tea, where you sip your chosen brew throughout, masala chai is served with the savoury bhajiya and vegetable pakoras. If you take a bite of the bhajiya, then a sip of chai, the tea intensifies the taste of the cumin and nigella seeds in the bhajiya,\u00a0and the flavours really pop \u2013 it's just heavenly.One of the sweet dishes I always make is badaam phirni; it's like a more elegant cousin of traditional rice pudding. It can be served either hot or cold and it has a lovely smooth texture that's complemented by some crunch from the crushed pistachios on top. As\u00a0kids, we would always eat halwa, and the adults would eat phirni \u2013 it was a sign that you'd grown up when you could have some. It's a much more sophisticated taste than halwa, so you can only really eat it in small amounts.What did you talk about?The weather, of course! We all agreed how nice it was to spend so much time outside this summer.My mum and uncle reminisced about eating halwa in the food bazaars of Pakistan, and talked about their favourite street-food vendors. Nowadays, street food is hugely popular, but for them, growing up in Pakistan during the 1940s and 1950s, it\u00a0was just how everyone ate. A lot of my recipes have been handed down to me\u00a0from my uncle and my father, so my uncle gave his verdict on the\u00a0dishes, too!We also discussed the menu for my next \"cash 'n' curry\" supper club. I\u00a0cook around four or five courses. We\u00a0don't provide a guide price, we just ask diners to pay what they think the meal is worth into a blind collection at the end. We then give all the money to a project that helps people living in slums in Chennai. A recent cash 'n' curry night raised enough money to fund a medical programme for an entire year, supporting a nurse, a\u00a0visiting doctor, and basic medicine for more than 40 families, while another evening raised enough cash to put 12 young people through full-time education for a year. We don't take a\u00a0cut for our time, or the ingredients \u2013 at\u00a0the end of the evening we just count it up and know that whatever money is there will change people's lives.My take on the classic savoury snack, served with my father, Victor's, chutney \u2013 affectionately known as\u00a0Vicki chutney.Serves 6 150g gram flour\u00bd tsp bicarbonate of soda2 tsp cumin seeds2 tsp nigella seeds5-6 large onions, finely slicedVegetable oil, for fryingSaltFor the chutney\u00bd onion, peeled and roughly chopped1 tomato, roughly chopped2 tsp tamarind concentrate1 green chilli2 cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped1 garlic clove1 handful of mint and coriander leaves1 tbsp flaked coconut50ml waterJuice of \u00bd lemonSalt1 In a big bowl, tip in the flour and add enough water to create a thick batter. Sprinkle in the bicarbonate of soda and both types of seeds with some salt to season. Put in the onions and mix well.2 Using a large wok or deep frying pan, pour in the oil to a depth of 2-3cm and heat to a medium-high temperature. Drop in a cumin seed. If it sizzles, the oil is ready. Using a ladle, gently lower spoonfuls of the mix into the oil. Fry for around 4 minutes until golden brown, then drain on kitchen paper.3 To make the chutney, put all the ingredients in a blender, then blitz until smooth. The result will be a\u00a0sharp, fresh-scented mix.This pudding is best presented in small bowls with little spoons.Serves 4-620 almonds or 4 tbsp flaked almonds600ml whole milk4 tbsp rice flour4 tbsp unrefined sugar10 saffron strands1 tsp ground cardamom 12 pistachios, crushed1 Blanch the almonds and remove their skins. Alternatively, use flaked almonds. Use a hand blender to grind the almonds in 120ml milk to produce a paste. Transfer to a bowl and mix in the rice flour.2 In a saucepan, bring the rest of the milk to the boil and tip in the sugar, stirring until it dissolves. Spoon 1\u00a0tbsp hot milk into a small bowl and steep with the saffron. Strain this back into the saucepan and add the almond paste. Gently stir until the mix thickens and becomes creamy, then shake in the cardamom powder. Cool, then sprinkle pistachios over the dessert and chill for an hour.The food served at afternoon teas will vary with our moods, but the masala chai recipe never does.Serves 8 1.1 litres milk1.4 litres water2cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped10 green cardamom pods, crushed6 cloves, coarsely ground1 tsp ground fennel seeds1 cinnamon stick3 English breakfast tea bagsSugar, to taste1 Heat the milk, water, ginger and spices in a pan, letting it simmer for about 15 minutes until the volume has\u00a0reduced a little. The liquid will smell deliciously fragrant.2 Take off the heat and drop in the teabags, allowing it to brew for a couple of minutes, or longer if you like it stronger. Strain through a sieve into tea glasses or cups and sweeten according to your taste.Ivor Peters is the author of The Urban Rajah's Curry Memoirs (Headline); urbanrajah.com", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Afternoon tea by way of Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-08-29T14:06:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani administrator has overturned a judgment sentencing a doctor who helped CIA agents hunting the al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden to 33 years in prison.Lawyers for Shakil Afridi, who was convicted of treason in May last year, played down his chances of release, but experts said the decision could be related to a recent improvement in difficult relations between the US and Pakistan. John Kerry, the US secretary of state, raised the issue of Afridi's imprisonment when visiting Islamabad in July.Michael Kugelman, south Asia expert at the Woodrow Wilson Centre in Washington DC, said: \"The US considers this a priority issue. It is a very dysfunctional relationship but has perhaps stabilised to the point where Pakistan is ready to act on a request like this.\"Afridi, a former public health officer who reportedly did not know exactly whom the CIA was trying to target when he agreed to work for them, was arrested following the night-time raid on Bin Laden's compound on 2 May 2011.As first revealed by the Guardian, in the weeks running up to the assault by US navy seals Afridi ran a bogus hepatitis B vaccination campaign for the CIA, designed to collect blood samples in the hope of finding people who matched the Bin Laden family DNA. A match would have helped to definitively identify the extremist leader.Afridi, 49, was not charged over that alleged offence but for his links with Lashkar-e-Islam, an Islamic militant group active in Khyber agency. He was found guilty of conspiring against the state.Sahibzada Mohammad Anees, who oversees the implementation of local laws in Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal agencies, ruled that the official who heard the case exceeded his authority when handing down the sentence last year.That judgment was passed in consultation with tribal elders in Khyber agency, which lies between the frontier city of Peshawar and the border with Afghanistan. Anees ordered a new trial.Afridi's sentence angered the US, which withheld \u00a322m in aid for Pakistan in retaliation. The then US defence secretary, Leon Panetta, publicly stated that Afridi \"was not in any way doing anything that would have undermined Pakistan\". However, it was welcomed by Pakistani security agencies who said the physician had got what he deserved.There have been signs that Pakistan's civilian bureaucracy and courts are increasingly prepared to challenge the country's powerful security establishment.A court in Peshawar recently ordered authorities to pay compensation to the mother of a man who was abducted and killed, reportedly by Pakistani security agencies.In July an unpublished report by a committee overseen by a former top judge seeking to answer questions as to how Bin Laden apparently remained undetected in Pakistan for nearly a decade was leaked to the media.It was fiercely critical of police and intelligence agencies, calling for a wholesale change in attitudes and working practices.However, more than two years after the killing of Bin Laden, Afridi is the only person to have been arrested in connection with the event.The raid, conducted by US special forces transported from Afghanistan in stealth helicopters that evaded Pakistan's air defences, was seen as a humiliation for the country's military establishment. It severely undermined relations between the US and Pakistan.Afridi's lawyer, Samiullah Afridi, said he was not hopeful about any retrial. \"The [original] decision was announced by an assistant political agent, who is an administrator, and it is going back to him [to decide again].\"We do not have any expectations because whatever happens will be according to what the [security] agencies want. We want that Dr Shakil Afridi should be tried by a lower-level judge, at the very least,\" he said.The appeal was heard by a bureaucrat because under the colonial-era laws in place in Pakistan's tribal agencies the decisions of political agents, the officials charged with administering justice in the agencies, cannot be heard in a court of law.The lawyer Afridi said he had been unable to contact his client and inform him of the ruling.\"His lawyers and his family have not been able to meet him for at least eight to nine months, but perhaps he has seen the news if it has appeared in the media,\" the lawyer, who is not related to his client, told the Guardian.The plan to obtain DNA samples from Osama bin Laden's family to confirm his presence in the Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad was set in motion after US intelligence agencies tracked a courier known to be linked to al-Qaida to a large, non-descript compound with high security where, they learned, a tall man with an extensive family lived.The agency monitored the compound from satellites and through surveillance from a CIA safehouse nearby, but wanted further confirmation that Bin Laden was present before mounting a risky operation inside another country. DNA from any of the Bin Laden children or grandchildren in the compound could be compared with a sample from the al-Qaida leader's sister, who died in Boston in 2010, to provide evidence that the family was present.So agents approached Dr Shahid Afridi, the health official in charge of Khyber, part of a tribal area that runs along the Afghan border close to Abbottabad. He agreed to help. The doctor went to Abbottabad in March 2011, claiming to have procured funds to give free vaccinations to locals against hepatitis B. Bypassing local health service officials, he paid generous sums to low-ranking local government health workers to administer vaccines door to door in Bin Laden's neighbourhood.One consequence of the operation has been to deepen existing suspicions among many in Pakistan that polio vaccines are part of a western plot against Islam. This has been described as a major setback in efforts to tackle the disease.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Osama bin Laden", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan overturns Bin Laden doctor's jail sentence"},{"date": "2013-08-22T16:19:22Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The battle to eliminate polio has hit apparent setbacks in northern Pakistan, where new cases are being reported, and in Israel, where the discovery of the virus in the sewage system has led to a mass immunisation campaign.Fourteen suspected cases of polio have been discovered in Pakistan's insurgency-racked north-west, where Taliban militants have banned vaccination workers.Although the country is awaiting the result of tests on stool samples from the affected children, a surge in cases could strike a major blow to the government's intense efforts to exit the small group of nations that has failed to eradicate the disease.All but two of the children were from North Waziristan, the most troubled of the seven tribal \"agencies\" that comprise the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, a semi-autonomous region of Pakistan that borders Afghanistan and is a hotbed for militancy.The majority of strikes by the CIA's unmanned drone campaign occur in North Waziristan, a situation that last year prompted Taliban commander Hafiz Gul Bahadur to block the anti-polio campaign in the agency. Militants in other areas have enacted similar bans, saying they will lift them only when drone strikes end.In North and South Waziristan, more than 260,000 under fives have not been immunised since June 2012. In tribal, highly conservative parts of the country health workers are regarded with intense suspicion. Popular fears are often stoked by local religious leaders who claim the vaccines are part of a western plot to sterilise Muslims.Elsewhere in the country, monsoon floods, insecurity and a string of byelections have forced authorities to postpone a vaccination drive originally scheduled to begin on Monday.According to the global polio eradication initiative, 181 cases had been recorded worldwide this year between January and 13 August. A total of 71 were in Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan, countries where the disease is endemic.Bruce Aylward, who leads the World Health Organisation's global polio eradication campaign, pointed out that the actions of Gul Bahadur were not in line with the expressed views of the Afghan Taliban, which published a statement on its website two months ago about the importance of vaccinating children against polio (with the rider that it should be done in a manner appropriate for Muslims).Aylward said some of the reported cases were false alarms, with tests showing that children's symptoms were not caused by the polio virus. But, he added, cases were inevitable. \"This is one of the very few areas in the world that is affected by polio where there is no vaccination ongoing,\" he said. \"The endgame in stopping transmission is getting vaccination into every affected area. If we are not vaccinating, we are not eradicating.\"Experts are hopeful that vaccination may resume. A year has passed since it was suspended, making it probable that the political impact will have diminished. And while a ban can continue indefinitely while there are no polio cases, local sensitivities may change if children become sick or are harmed by the disease.Aylward pointed to conflict-hit areas such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo and northern Nigeria, where vaccination has resumed. \"In each case, with time and understanding for the consequences of their own children, it has been possible to get a dialogue,\" he said.Meanwhile, Israel has launched a mass inoculation programme, aimed at reaching more than a million under-10s over the next three months, after one of the three strains of polio was detected in the country's sewage system.No one in Israel has developed the virus since the discovery of type one in the south of the country earlier this year. It has since spread to sewage systems in the centre and the north. Type one was identified in neighbouring Egypt in December.Drops containing vaccine against types one and three of the virus are being administered orally at health clinics. Israel routinely immunises children against polio, but this campaign aims to boost the level of protection.About 182,000 children were inoculated in the first three days. A legal petition against the move, on the grounds that it was unnecessary and could be harmful, was dismissed by the high court.The last outbreak of polio in Israel was 25 years ago, and Aylward said the situation there is different to that in Pakistan. Like most countries that have eliminated polio, Israel has switched from oral drops to the inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), which is injected. The IPV prevents the virus causing illness but, if children or adults contract it, it will still travel through the gut.Israel, which has excellent surveillance systems, discovered the virus in the sewage system in February, said Aylward, but that happens in many countries using IPV. What is unusual is that it did not disappear and has since been detected in other parts of the country.The virus in the sewage is not a threat to children who have been immunised, but it is to the estimated 6% who have not been. \"So far, they have been lucky \u2013 there are no cases,\" said Aylward. Without the vaccination campaign, however, it would be surprising if cases did not occur.", "tags": ["Global development", "Polio", "Vaccines and immunisation", "Health", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan and Israel hit by polio setback"},{"date": "2013-08-20T22:16:53Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Compared with the announcement in June in which the Pakistani prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, declared his government's intention to press charges against Pervez Musharraf for treason, Tuesday's court indictment against the former military ruler for murder in connection with the assassination of Benazir Bhutto is a sideshow. Few analysts believe there is hard evidence linking Mr Musharraf to Bhutto's murder, although a UN report concluded that he failed to make serious efforts to ensure her safety. The treason charges, if they materialise, are a different matter, as the legal case that he subverted the constitution when he imposed emergency rule in late 2007 is relatively easy to make.Mr Musharraf already faces charges in four cases related to his period of rule. One way or another, it amounts to the same thing: putting a once untouchable general on trial. Pakistan's powerful military did not support his return from exile in London but they would also not want to see one of their own dragged through the courts. Much has changed in his absence. The chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, with whom Mr Musharraf feuded for most of his time in office, is about to retire. There has been an unprecedented outbreak of criticism against the chief justice, from within his own ranks, the Lahore High Bar Association, and from the politician Imran Khan. Mr Chaudhry no longer walks on water as far as many of his activist lawyers are concerned. It is likely that his replacement will not be as awkward a figure for Mr Sharif as Mr Chaudhry was to the former government.More importantly, the army, too, is about to have a new leader. In his forthcoming book, Getting Away With Murder, the man who led the UN investigation in Bhutto's assassination, Heraldo Mu\u00f1oz, describes the outgoing army chief, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, as a professional soldier of independent mind. Mr Mu\u00f1oz said that the general expressed doubts to him about the claim by his former boss Mr Musharraf that Bhutto had been assassinated by the Pakistani Taliban. He also spoke fondly of Bhutto, saying she had grown as a politician. All this further muddies the waters about who was really behind her assassination. The author himself concludes that almost everyone played a part.Mr Musharraf was ill advised to return to Pakistan, where his political support has evaporated and where he spends his time under house arrest. Even with a new army chief and chief justice, Mr Sharif will have to balance the demand to seek justice for emergency rule, with the needs of a military that remains the most powerful institution in the land. A presidential pardon for Mr Musharraf, if convicted, could be one way out. Establishing the rule of law is going to take somewhat longer.", "tags": ["Pervez Musharraf", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news", "Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan: the general is no longer untouchable | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-27T19:45:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Three months after he came to power, Nawaz Sharif's counter-terrorism policy is in tatters. He was elected on a promise to hold peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban. An all-parties conference called on the prime minister to initiate a dialogue with all \"stakeholders\". The response of some of those with an interest and concern in the outcome (the dictionary definition) was to blow up 81 Christian worshippers outside a church in Peshawar on Sunday and follow that up yesterday by bombing a bus carrying government employees in the same province, killing at least 17 people. Although Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP) denied involvement in one of the worst attacks ever made on the Christian minority in the country, a previously unknown group, going under the Taliban umbrella, did claim responsibility.Although Christians are frequently targeted \u2013 in March, a mob swarmed through Lahore's Joseph Colony, setting 150 houses ablaze over alleged blasphemy charges against one resident \u2013 they are by no means the only minority to reap the full force of fundamentalist fury. Since last year, over 750 Shia Muslims have been killed in targeted attacks across Pakistan, many from the Hazaras in Balochistan. Figures like these have by now lost all meaning. Since 2001, well over 40,000 Pakistanis have perished in this maelstrom. It is the responsibility of any government, let alone a popularly elected civilian one, to attempt to halt this weekly carnage. Mr Sharif's decision to release Abdul Ghani Baradar, the Taliban's former second-in-command, to initiate a peace process between Kabul and the Afghan Taliban, was rightly welcomed. That war, as we have said many times, can only be solved at the negotiating table, and Pakistan's involvement is essential. The drone attacks, which account for up to 3,000 deaths (although these figures are disputed, too), only prolong the agony.But there is a big distance to be travelled from that position to pretending that the Pakistani state can accommodate the agenda of the TTP, al-Qaida and other militant groups. It is also Mr Sharif's responsibility to protect religious minorities and uphold basic rights, as Human Rights Watch said in its recent letter to him. The assumption that buying space for the Afghan Taliban is going to help with the TTP is erroneous. The public discourse in Pakistan suffers from a false binary that the TTP is a function of the drone strikes. The challenge it poses the state is more fundamental than that. Fundamentalism is a product of decades of official complicity, cowardice and appeasement. Sooner or later, Mr Sharif will be forced to realise that. Until then, he is merely kicking the can down the road.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan: kicking the can down the road | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-31T04:32:57Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "What was the occasion?My family and friends all love food, so there's always an excuse to have people over. This sunny afternoon, I\u00a0invited my mum, uncle and cousins and a few friends who live locally. The weather forecast for the weekend was bright and sunny, so we decided to have an Indian-style afternoon tea in the garden \u2013 a mix of sweet and savoury foods, served with masala chai\u00a0and lime and mint water.What was on the menu?In our family, the unspoken rule when it comes to afternoon tea is to make enough food for any last-minute guests, so I always make plenty of dishes. Onion bhajiya are a perennial favourite, though. My twist is to really pack in the onion, so there's less batter, and to fry them for a little longer so they caramelise. I always serve them with a hot and sweet chutney, which is my dad's recipe. I feel like I'm reliving my childhood when I make it \u2013 it's a rock-steady companion that never fails to finish off a dish nicely.Unlike British afternoon tea, where you sip your chosen brew throughout, masala chai is served with the savoury bhajiya and vegetable pakoras. If you take a bite of the bhajiya, then a sip of chai, the tea intensifies the taste of the cumin and nigella seeds in the bhajiya,\u00a0and the flavours really pop \u2013 it's just heavenly.One of the sweet dishes I always make is badaam phirni; it's like a more elegant cousin of traditional rice pudding. It can be served either hot or cold and it has a lovely smooth texture that's complemented by some crunch from the crushed pistachios on top. As\u00a0kids, we would always eat halwa, and the adults would eat phirni \u2013 it was a sign that you'd grown up when you could have some. It's a much more sophisticated taste than halwa, so you can only really eat it in small amounts.What did you talk about?The weather, of course! We all agreed how nice it was to spend so much time outside this summer.My mum and uncle reminisced about eating halwa in the food bazaars of Pakistan, and talked about their favourite street-food vendors. Nowadays, street food is hugely popular, but for them, growing up in Pakistan during the 1940s and 1950s, it\u00a0was just how everyone ate. A lot of my recipes have been handed down to me\u00a0from my uncle and my father, so my uncle gave his verdict on the\u00a0dishes, too!We also discussed the menu for my next \"cash 'n' curry\" supper club. I\u00a0cook around four or five courses. We\u00a0don't provide a guide price, we just ask diners to pay what they think the meal is worth into a blind collection at the end. We then give all the money to a project that helps people living in slums in Chennai. A recent cash 'n' curry night raised enough money to fund a medical programme for an entire year, supporting a nurse, a\u00a0visiting doctor, and basic medicine for more than 40 families, while another evening raised enough cash to put 12 young people through full-time education for a year. We don't take a\u00a0cut for our time, or the ingredients \u2013 at\u00a0the end of the evening we just count it up and know that whatever money is there will change people's lives.My take on the classic savoury snack, served with my father, Victor's, chutney \u2013 affectionately known as\u00a0Vicki chutney.Serves 6 150g gram flour\u00bd tsp bicarbonate of soda2 tsp cumin seeds2 tsp nigella seeds5-6 large onions, finely slicedVegetable oil, for fryingSaltFor the chutney\u00bd onion, peeled and roughly chopped1 tomato, roughly chopped2 tsp tamarind concentrate1 green chilli2 cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped1 garlic clove1 handful of mint and coriander leaves1 tbsp flaked coconut50ml waterJuice of \u00bd lemonSalt1 In a big bowl, tip in the flour and add enough water to create a thick batter. Sprinkle in the bicarbonate of soda and both types of seeds with some salt to season. Put in the onions and mix well.2 Using a large wok or deep frying pan, pour in the oil to a depth of 2-3cm and heat to a medium-high temperature. Drop in a cumin seed. If it sizzles, the oil is ready. Using a ladle, gently lower spoonfuls of the mix into the oil. Fry for around 4 minutes until golden brown, then drain on kitchen paper.3 To make the chutney, put all the ingredients in a blender, then blitz until smooth. The result will be a\u00a0sharp, fresh-scented mix.This pudding is best presented in small bowls with little spoons.Serves 4-620 almonds or 4 tbsp flaked almonds600ml whole milk4 tbsp rice flour4 tbsp unrefined sugar10 saffron strands1 tsp ground cardamom 12 pistachios, crushed1 Blanch the almonds and remove their skins. Alternatively, use flaked almonds. Use a hand blender to grind the almonds in 120ml milk to produce a paste. Transfer to a bowl and mix in the rice flour.2 In a saucepan, bring the rest of the milk to the boil and tip in the sugar, stirring until it dissolves. Spoon 1\u00a0tbsp hot milk into a small bowl and steep with the saffron. Strain this back into the saucepan and add the almond paste. Gently stir until the mix thickens and becomes creamy, then shake in the cardamom powder. Cool, then sprinkle pistachios over the dessert and chill for an hour.The food served at afternoon teas will vary with our moods, but the masala chai recipe never does.Serves 8 1.1 litres milk1.4 litres water2cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped10 green cardamom pods, crushed6 cloves, coarsely ground1 tsp ground fennel seeds1 cinnamon stick3 English breakfast tea bagsSugar, to taste1 Heat the milk, water, ginger and spices in a pan, letting it simmer for about 15 minutes until the volume has\u00a0reduced a little. The liquid will smell deliciously fragrant.2 Take off the heat and drop in the teabags, allowing it to brew for a couple of minutes, or longer if you like it stronger. Strain through a sieve into tea glasses or cups and sweeten according to your taste.Ivor Peters is the author of The Urban Rajah's Curry Memoirs (Headline); urbanrajah.com", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Afternoon tea by way of Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-08-29T14:06:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani administrator has overturned a judgment sentencing a doctor who helped CIA agents hunting the al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden to 33 years in prison.Lawyers for Shakil Afridi, who was convicted of treason in May last year, played down his chances of release, but experts said the decision could be related to a recent improvement in difficult relations between the US and Pakistan. John Kerry, the US secretary of state, raised the issue of Afridi's imprisonment when visiting Islamabad in July.Michael Kugelman, south Asia expert at the Woodrow Wilson Centre in Washington DC, said: \"The US considers this a priority issue. It is a very dysfunctional relationship but has perhaps stabilised to the point where Pakistan is ready to act on a request like this.\"Afridi, a former public health officer who reportedly did not know exactly whom the CIA was trying to target when he agreed to work for them, was arrested following the night-time raid on Bin Laden's compound on 2 May 2011.As first revealed by the Guardian, in the weeks running up to the assault by US navy seals Afridi ran a bogus hepatitis B vaccination campaign for the CIA, designed to collect blood samples in the hope of finding people who matched the Bin Laden family DNA. A match would have helped to definitively identify the extremist leader.Afridi, 49, was not charged over that alleged offence but for his links with Lashkar-e-Islam, an Islamic militant group active in Khyber agency. He was found guilty of conspiring against the state.Sahibzada Mohammad Anees, who oversees the implementation of local laws in Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal agencies, ruled that the official who heard the case exceeded his authority when handing down the sentence last year.That judgment was passed in consultation with tribal elders in Khyber agency, which lies between the frontier city of Peshawar and the border with Afghanistan. Anees ordered a new trial.Afridi's sentence angered the US, which withheld \u00a322m in aid for Pakistan in retaliation. The then US defence secretary, Leon Panetta, publicly stated that Afridi \"was not in any way doing anything that would have undermined Pakistan\". However, it was welcomed by Pakistani security agencies who said the physician had got what he deserved.There have been signs that Pakistan's civilian bureaucracy and courts are increasingly prepared to challenge the country's powerful security establishment.A court in Peshawar recently ordered authorities to pay compensation to the mother of a man who was abducted and killed, reportedly by Pakistani security agencies.In July an unpublished report by a committee overseen by a former top judge seeking to answer questions as to how Bin Laden apparently remained undetected in Pakistan for nearly a decade was leaked to the media.It was fiercely critical of police and intelligence agencies, calling for a wholesale change in attitudes and working practices.However, more than two years after the killing of Bin Laden, Afridi is the only person to have been arrested in connection with the event.The raid, conducted by US special forces transported from Afghanistan in stealth helicopters that evaded Pakistan's air defences, was seen as a humiliation for the country's military establishment. It severely undermined relations between the US and Pakistan.Afridi's lawyer, Samiullah Afridi, said he was not hopeful about any retrial. \"The [original] decision was announced by an assistant political agent, who is an administrator, and it is going back to him [to decide again].\"We do not have any expectations because whatever happens will be according to what the [security] agencies want. We want that Dr Shakil Afridi should be tried by a lower-level judge, at the very least,\" he said.The appeal was heard by a bureaucrat because under the colonial-era laws in place in Pakistan's tribal agencies the decisions of political agents, the officials charged with administering justice in the agencies, cannot be heard in a court of law.The lawyer Afridi said he had been unable to contact his client and inform him of the ruling.\"His lawyers and his family have not been able to meet him for at least eight to nine months, but perhaps he has seen the news if it has appeared in the media,\" the lawyer, who is not related to his client, told the Guardian.The plan to obtain DNA samples from Osama bin Laden's family to confirm his presence in the Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad was set in motion after US intelligence agencies tracked a courier known to be linked to al-Qaida to a large, non-descript compound with high security where, they learned, a tall man with an extensive family lived.The agency monitored the compound from satellites and through surveillance from a CIA safehouse nearby, but wanted further confirmation that Bin Laden was present before mounting a risky operation inside another country. DNA from any of the Bin Laden children or grandchildren in the compound could be compared with a sample from the al-Qaida leader's sister, who died in Boston in 2010, to provide evidence that the family was present.So agents approached Dr Shahid Afridi, the health official in charge of Khyber, part of a tribal area that runs along the Afghan border close to Abbottabad. He agreed to help. The doctor went to Abbottabad in March 2011, claiming to have procured funds to give free vaccinations to locals against hepatitis B. Bypassing local health service officials, he paid generous sums to low-ranking local government health workers to administer vaccines door to door in Bin Laden's neighbourhood.One consequence of the operation has been to deepen existing suspicions among many in Pakistan that polio vaccines are part of a western plot against Islam. This has been described as a major setback in efforts to tackle the disease.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Osama bin Laden", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan overturns Bin Laden doctor's jail sentence"},{"date": "2013-08-22T16:19:22Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The battle to eliminate polio has hit apparent setbacks in northern Pakistan, where new cases are being reported, and in Israel, where the discovery of the virus in the sewage system has led to a mass immunisation campaign.Fourteen suspected cases of polio have been discovered in Pakistan's insurgency-racked north-west, where Taliban militants have banned vaccination workers.Although the country is awaiting the result of tests on stool samples from the affected children, a surge in cases could strike a major blow to the government's intense efforts to exit the small group of nations that has failed to eradicate the disease.All but two of the children were from North Waziristan, the most troubled of the seven tribal \"agencies\" that comprise the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, a semi-autonomous region of Pakistan that borders Afghanistan and is a hotbed for militancy.The majority of strikes by the CIA's unmanned drone campaign occur in North Waziristan, a situation that last year prompted Taliban commander Hafiz Gul Bahadur to block the anti-polio campaign in the agency. Militants in other areas have enacted similar bans, saying they will lift them only when drone strikes end.In North and South Waziristan, more than 260,000 under fives have not been immunised since June 2012. In tribal, highly conservative parts of the country health workers are regarded with intense suspicion. Popular fears are often stoked by local religious leaders who claim the vaccines are part of a western plot to sterilise Muslims.Elsewhere in the country, monsoon floods, insecurity and a string of byelections have forced authorities to postpone a vaccination drive originally scheduled to begin on Monday.According to the global polio eradication initiative, 181 cases had been recorded worldwide this year between January and 13 August. A total of 71 were in Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan, countries where the disease is endemic.Bruce Aylward, who leads the World Health Organisation's global polio eradication campaign, pointed out that the actions of Gul Bahadur were not in line with the expressed views of the Afghan Taliban, which published a statement on its website two months ago about the importance of vaccinating children against polio (with the rider that it should be done in a manner appropriate for Muslims).Aylward said some of the reported cases were false alarms, with tests showing that children's symptoms were not caused by the polio virus. But, he added, cases were inevitable. \"This is one of the very few areas in the world that is affected by polio where there is no vaccination ongoing,\" he said. \"The endgame in stopping transmission is getting vaccination into every affected area. If we are not vaccinating, we are not eradicating.\"Experts are hopeful that vaccination may resume. A year has passed since it was suspended, making it probable that the political impact will have diminished. And while a ban can continue indefinitely while there are no polio cases, local sensitivities may change if children become sick or are harmed by the disease.Aylward pointed to conflict-hit areas such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo and northern Nigeria, where vaccination has resumed. \"In each case, with time and understanding for the consequences of their own children, it has been possible to get a dialogue,\" he said.Meanwhile, Israel has launched a mass inoculation programme, aimed at reaching more than a million under-10s over the next three months, after one of the three strains of polio was detected in the country's sewage system.No one in Israel has developed the virus since the discovery of type one in the south of the country earlier this year. It has since spread to sewage systems in the centre and the north. Type one was identified in neighbouring Egypt in December.Drops containing vaccine against types one and three of the virus are being administered orally at health clinics. Israel routinely immunises children against polio, but this campaign aims to boost the level of protection.About 182,000 children were inoculated in the first three days. A legal petition against the move, on the grounds that it was unnecessary and could be harmful, was dismissed by the high court.The last outbreak of polio in Israel was 25 years ago, and Aylward said the situation there is different to that in Pakistan. Like most countries that have eliminated polio, Israel has switched from oral drops to the inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), which is injected. The IPV prevents the virus causing illness but, if children or adults contract it, it will still travel through the gut.Israel, which has excellent surveillance systems, discovered the virus in the sewage system in February, said Aylward, but that happens in many countries using IPV. What is unusual is that it did not disappear and has since been detected in other parts of the country.The virus in the sewage is not a threat to children who have been immunised, but it is to the estimated 6% who have not been. \"So far, they have been lucky \u2013 there are no cases,\" said Aylward. Without the vaccination campaign, however, it would be surprising if cases did not occur.", "tags": ["Global development", "Polio", "Vaccines and immunisation", "Health", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan and Israel hit by polio setback"},{"date": "2013-08-20T22:16:53Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Compared with the announcement in June in which the Pakistani prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, declared his government's intention to press charges against Pervez Musharraf for treason, Tuesday's court indictment against the former military ruler for murder in connection with the assassination of Benazir Bhutto is a sideshow. Few analysts believe there is hard evidence linking Mr Musharraf to Bhutto's murder, although a UN report concluded that he failed to make serious efforts to ensure her safety. The treason charges, if they materialise, are a different matter, as the legal case that he subverted the constitution when he imposed emergency rule in late 2007 is relatively easy to make.Mr Musharraf already faces charges in four cases related to his period of rule. One way or another, it amounts to the same thing: putting a once untouchable general on trial. Pakistan's powerful military did not support his return from exile in London but they would also not want to see one of their own dragged through the courts. Much has changed in his absence. The chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, with whom Mr Musharraf feuded for most of his time in office, is about to retire. There has been an unprecedented outbreak of criticism against the chief justice, from within his own ranks, the Lahore High Bar Association, and from the politician Imran Khan. Mr Chaudhry no longer walks on water as far as many of his activist lawyers are concerned. It is likely that his replacement will not be as awkward a figure for Mr Sharif as Mr Chaudhry was to the former government.More importantly, the army, too, is about to have a new leader. In his forthcoming book, Getting Away With Murder, the man who led the UN investigation in Bhutto's assassination, Heraldo Mu\u00f1oz, describes the outgoing army chief, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, as a professional soldier of independent mind. Mr Mu\u00f1oz said that the general expressed doubts to him about the claim by his former boss Mr Musharraf that Bhutto had been assassinated by the Pakistani Taliban. He also spoke fondly of Bhutto, saying she had grown as a politician. All this further muddies the waters about who was really behind her assassination. The author himself concludes that almost everyone played a part.Mr Musharraf was ill advised to return to Pakistan, where his political support has evaporated and where he spends his time under house arrest. Even with a new army chief and chief justice, Mr Sharif will have to balance the demand to seek justice for emergency rule, with the needs of a military that remains the most powerful institution in the land. A presidential pardon for Mr Musharraf, if convicted, could be one way out. Establishing the rule of law is going to take somewhat longer.", "tags": ["Pervez Musharraf", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news", "Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan: the general is no longer untouchable | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-16T13:04:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two people were injured earlier today when four men stepped off their motorcycles and sprayed the Express News office in Karachi with gunfire.More than 30 rounds were fired at the building. A guard and a female member of staff were taken to hospital. Their condition is not known as I write.Express News is an Urdu language TV news channel that was launched in 2008. It is owned by the Lakson Group.Express Tribune writer Maheen Sabeeh commented hours after the shooting incident on the failure of the media community to condemn the attack. She wrote: \"Nobody bothered to cover this news. Geo, ARY, Capital TV, Aaj News, Dawn News, Dunya, TV One News, CNBC Pakistan \u2013 no one cared enough to even run a ticker on this tragic event.\"And Akmal Hussain, an economics professor and social activist, wrote:\"It is a matter of grave concern that such a dastardly attack has been made against the Express News, which is in the vanguard of the struggle against bigotry, barbarism and violence to sustain democracy, rationality and humanity in Pakistan.\"He called on Pakistan's prime minister Nawaz Sharif to defend the media and democracy. Early news reports said Sharif had demanded an immediate report on the attack.Sources: Express Tribune here & here/Private emails", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Human rights"], "title": "Gunmen fire on Pakistan TV offices"},{"date": "2013-09-27T19:45:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Three months after he came to power, Nawaz Sharif's counter-terrorism policy is in tatters. He was elected on a promise to hold peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban. An all-parties conference called on the prime minister to initiate a dialogue with all \"stakeholders\". The response of some of those with an interest and concern in the outcome (the dictionary definition) was to blow up 81 Christian worshippers outside a church in Peshawar on Sunday and follow that up yesterday by bombing a bus carrying government employees in the same province, killing at least 17 people. Although Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP) denied involvement in one of the worst attacks ever made on the Christian minority in the country, a previously unknown group, going under the Taliban umbrella, did claim responsibility.Although Christians are frequently targeted \u2013 in March, a mob swarmed through Lahore's Joseph Colony, setting 150 houses ablaze over alleged blasphemy charges against one resident \u2013 they are by no means the only minority to reap the full force of fundamentalist fury. Since last year, over 750 Shia Muslims have been killed in targeted attacks across Pakistan, many from the Hazaras in Balochistan. Figures like these have by now lost all meaning. Since 2001, well over 40,000 Pakistanis have perished in this maelstrom. It is the responsibility of any government, let alone a popularly elected civilian one, to attempt to halt this weekly carnage. Mr Sharif's decision to release Abdul Ghani Baradar, the Taliban's former second-in-command, to initiate a peace process between Kabul and the Afghan Taliban, was rightly welcomed. That war, as we have said many times, can only be solved at the negotiating table, and Pakistan's involvement is essential. The drone attacks, which account for up to 3,000 deaths (although these figures are disputed, too), only prolong the agony.But there is a big distance to be travelled from that position to pretending that the Pakistani state can accommodate the agenda of the TTP, al-Qaida and other militant groups. It is also Mr Sharif's responsibility to protect religious minorities and uphold basic rights, as Human Rights Watch said in its recent letter to him. The assumption that buying space for the Afghan Taliban is going to help with the TTP is erroneous. The public discourse in Pakistan suffers from a false binary that the TTP is a function of the drone strikes. The challenge it poses the state is more fundamental than that. Fundamentalism is a product of decades of official complicity, cowardice and appeasement. Sooner or later, Mr Sharif will be forced to realise that. Until then, he is merely kicking the can down the road.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan: kicking the can down the road | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-31T04:32:57Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "What was the occasion?My family and friends all love food, so there's always an excuse to have people over. This sunny afternoon, I\u00a0invited my mum, uncle and cousins and a few friends who live locally. The weather forecast for the weekend was bright and sunny, so we decided to have an Indian-style afternoon tea in the garden \u2013 a mix of sweet and savoury foods, served with masala chai\u00a0and lime and mint water.What was on the menu?In our family, the unspoken rule when it comes to afternoon tea is to make enough food for any last-minute guests, so I always make plenty of dishes. Onion bhajiya are a perennial favourite, though. My twist is to really pack in the onion, so there's less batter, and to fry them for a little longer so they caramelise. I always serve them with a hot and sweet chutney, which is my dad's recipe. I feel like I'm reliving my childhood when I make it \u2013 it's a rock-steady companion that never fails to finish off a dish nicely.Unlike British afternoon tea, where you sip your chosen brew throughout, masala chai is served with the savoury bhajiya and vegetable pakoras. If you take a bite of the bhajiya, then a sip of chai, the tea intensifies the taste of the cumin and nigella seeds in the bhajiya,\u00a0and the flavours really pop \u2013 it's just heavenly.One of the sweet dishes I always make is badaam phirni; it's like a more elegant cousin of traditional rice pudding. It can be served either hot or cold and it has a lovely smooth texture that's complemented by some crunch from the crushed pistachios on top. As\u00a0kids, we would always eat halwa, and the adults would eat phirni \u2013 it was a sign that you'd grown up when you could have some. It's a much more sophisticated taste than halwa, so you can only really eat it in small amounts.What did you talk about?The weather, of course! We all agreed how nice it was to spend so much time outside this summer.My mum and uncle reminisced about eating halwa in the food bazaars of Pakistan, and talked about their favourite street-food vendors. Nowadays, street food is hugely popular, but for them, growing up in Pakistan during the 1940s and 1950s, it\u00a0was just how everyone ate. A lot of my recipes have been handed down to me\u00a0from my uncle and my father, so my uncle gave his verdict on the\u00a0dishes, too!We also discussed the menu for my next \"cash 'n' curry\" supper club. I\u00a0cook around four or five courses. We\u00a0don't provide a guide price, we just ask diners to pay what they think the meal is worth into a blind collection at the end. We then give all the money to a project that helps people living in slums in Chennai. A recent cash 'n' curry night raised enough money to fund a medical programme for an entire year, supporting a nurse, a\u00a0visiting doctor, and basic medicine for more than 40 families, while another evening raised enough cash to put 12 young people through full-time education for a year. We don't take a\u00a0cut for our time, or the ingredients \u2013 at\u00a0the end of the evening we just count it up and know that whatever money is there will change people's lives.My take on the classic savoury snack, served with my father, Victor's, chutney \u2013 affectionately known as\u00a0Vicki chutney.Serves 6 150g gram flour\u00bd tsp bicarbonate of soda2 tsp cumin seeds2 tsp nigella seeds5-6 large onions, finely slicedVegetable oil, for fryingSaltFor the chutney\u00bd onion, peeled and roughly chopped1 tomato, roughly chopped2 tsp tamarind concentrate1 green chilli2 cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped1 garlic clove1 handful of mint and coriander leaves1 tbsp flaked coconut50ml waterJuice of \u00bd lemonSalt1 In a big bowl, tip in the flour and add enough water to create a thick batter. Sprinkle in the bicarbonate of soda and both types of seeds with some salt to season. Put in the onions and mix well.2 Using a large wok or deep frying pan, pour in the oil to a depth of 2-3cm and heat to a medium-high temperature. Drop in a cumin seed. If it sizzles, the oil is ready. Using a ladle, gently lower spoonfuls of the mix into the oil. Fry for around 4 minutes until golden brown, then drain on kitchen paper.3 To make the chutney, put all the ingredients in a blender, then blitz until smooth. The result will be a\u00a0sharp, fresh-scented mix.This pudding is best presented in small bowls with little spoons.Serves 4-620 almonds or 4 tbsp flaked almonds600ml whole milk4 tbsp rice flour4 tbsp unrefined sugar10 saffron strands1 tsp ground cardamom 12 pistachios, crushed1 Blanch the almonds and remove their skins. Alternatively, use flaked almonds. Use a hand blender to grind the almonds in 120ml milk to produce a paste. Transfer to a bowl and mix in the rice flour.2 In a saucepan, bring the rest of the milk to the boil and tip in the sugar, stirring until it dissolves. Spoon 1\u00a0tbsp hot milk into a small bowl and steep with the saffron. Strain this back into the saucepan and add the almond paste. Gently stir until the mix thickens and becomes creamy, then shake in the cardamom powder. Cool, then sprinkle pistachios over the dessert and chill for an hour.The food served at afternoon teas will vary with our moods, but the masala chai recipe never does.Serves 8 1.1 litres milk1.4 litres water2cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped10 green cardamom pods, crushed6 cloves, coarsely ground1 tsp ground fennel seeds1 cinnamon stick3 English breakfast tea bagsSugar, to taste1 Heat the milk, water, ginger and spices in a pan, letting it simmer for about 15 minutes until the volume has\u00a0reduced a little. The liquid will smell deliciously fragrant.2 Take off the heat and drop in the teabags, allowing it to brew for a couple of minutes, or longer if you like it stronger. Strain through a sieve into tea glasses or cups and sweeten according to your taste.Ivor Peters is the author of The Urban Rajah's Curry Memoirs (Headline); urbanrajah.com", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Afternoon tea by way of Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-08-29T14:06:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani administrator has overturned a judgment sentencing a doctor who helped CIA agents hunting the al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden to 33 years in prison.Lawyers for Shakil Afridi, who was convicted of treason in May last year, played down his chances of release, but experts said the decision could be related to a recent improvement in difficult relations between the US and Pakistan. John Kerry, the US secretary of state, raised the issue of Afridi's imprisonment when visiting Islamabad in July.Michael Kugelman, south Asia expert at the Woodrow Wilson Centre in Washington DC, said: \"The US considers this a priority issue. It is a very dysfunctional relationship but has perhaps stabilised to the point where Pakistan is ready to act on a request like this.\"Afridi, a former public health officer who reportedly did not know exactly whom the CIA was trying to target when he agreed to work for them, was arrested following the night-time raid on Bin Laden's compound on 2 May 2011.As first revealed by the Guardian, in the weeks running up to the assault by US navy seals Afridi ran a bogus hepatitis B vaccination campaign for the CIA, designed to collect blood samples in the hope of finding people who matched the Bin Laden family DNA. A match would have helped to definitively identify the extremist leader.Afridi, 49, was not charged over that alleged offence but for his links with Lashkar-e-Islam, an Islamic militant group active in Khyber agency. He was found guilty of conspiring against the state.Sahibzada Mohammad Anees, who oversees the implementation of local laws in Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal agencies, ruled that the official who heard the case exceeded his authority when handing down the sentence last year.That judgment was passed in consultation with tribal elders in Khyber agency, which lies between the frontier city of Peshawar and the border with Afghanistan. Anees ordered a new trial.Afridi's sentence angered the US, which withheld \u00a322m in aid for Pakistan in retaliation. The then US defence secretary, Leon Panetta, publicly stated that Afridi \"was not in any way doing anything that would have undermined Pakistan\". However, it was welcomed by Pakistani security agencies who said the physician had got what he deserved.There have been signs that Pakistan's civilian bureaucracy and courts are increasingly prepared to challenge the country's powerful security establishment.A court in Peshawar recently ordered authorities to pay compensation to the mother of a man who was abducted and killed, reportedly by Pakistani security agencies.In July an unpublished report by a committee overseen by a former top judge seeking to answer questions as to how Bin Laden apparently remained undetected in Pakistan for nearly a decade was leaked to the media.It was fiercely critical of police and intelligence agencies, calling for a wholesale change in attitudes and working practices.However, more than two years after the killing of Bin Laden, Afridi is the only person to have been arrested in connection with the event.The raid, conducted by US special forces transported from Afghanistan in stealth helicopters that evaded Pakistan's air defences, was seen as a humiliation for the country's military establishment. It severely undermined relations between the US and Pakistan.Afridi's lawyer, Samiullah Afridi, said he was not hopeful about any retrial. \"The [original] decision was announced by an assistant political agent, who is an administrator, and it is going back to him [to decide again].\"We do not have any expectations because whatever happens will be according to what the [security] agencies want. We want that Dr Shakil Afridi should be tried by a lower-level judge, at the very least,\" he said.The appeal was heard by a bureaucrat because under the colonial-era laws in place in Pakistan's tribal agencies the decisions of political agents, the officials charged with administering justice in the agencies, cannot be heard in a court of law.The lawyer Afridi said he had been unable to contact his client and inform him of the ruling.\"His lawyers and his family have not been able to meet him for at least eight to nine months, but perhaps he has seen the news if it has appeared in the media,\" the lawyer, who is not related to his client, told the Guardian.The plan to obtain DNA samples from Osama bin Laden's family to confirm his presence in the Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad was set in motion after US intelligence agencies tracked a courier known to be linked to al-Qaida to a large, non-descript compound with high security where, they learned, a tall man with an extensive family lived.The agency monitored the compound from satellites and through surveillance from a CIA safehouse nearby, but wanted further confirmation that Bin Laden was present before mounting a risky operation inside another country. DNA from any of the Bin Laden children or grandchildren in the compound could be compared with a sample from the al-Qaida leader's sister, who died in Boston in 2010, to provide evidence that the family was present.So agents approached Dr Shahid Afridi, the health official in charge of Khyber, part of a tribal area that runs along the Afghan border close to Abbottabad. He agreed to help. The doctor went to Abbottabad in March 2011, claiming to have procured funds to give free vaccinations to locals against hepatitis B. Bypassing local health service officials, he paid generous sums to low-ranking local government health workers to administer vaccines door to door in Bin Laden's neighbourhood.One consequence of the operation has been to deepen existing suspicions among many in Pakistan that polio vaccines are part of a western plot against Islam. This has been described as a major setback in efforts to tackle the disease.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Osama bin Laden", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan overturns Bin Laden doctor's jail sentence"},{"date": "2013-08-22T16:19:22Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The battle to eliminate polio has hit apparent setbacks in northern Pakistan, where new cases are being reported, and in Israel, where the discovery of the virus in the sewage system has led to a mass immunisation campaign.Fourteen suspected cases of polio have been discovered in Pakistan's insurgency-racked north-west, where Taliban militants have banned vaccination workers.Although the country is awaiting the result of tests on stool samples from the affected children, a surge in cases could strike a major blow to the government's intense efforts to exit the small group of nations that has failed to eradicate the disease.All but two of the children were from North Waziristan, the most troubled of the seven tribal \"agencies\" that comprise the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, a semi-autonomous region of Pakistan that borders Afghanistan and is a hotbed for militancy.The majority of strikes by the CIA's unmanned drone campaign occur in North Waziristan, a situation that last year prompted Taliban commander Hafiz Gul Bahadur to block the anti-polio campaign in the agency. Militants in other areas have enacted similar bans, saying they will lift them only when drone strikes end.In North and South Waziristan, more than 260,000 under fives have not been immunised since June 2012. In tribal, highly conservative parts of the country health workers are regarded with intense suspicion. Popular fears are often stoked by local religious leaders who claim the vaccines are part of a western plot to sterilise Muslims.Elsewhere in the country, monsoon floods, insecurity and a string of byelections have forced authorities to postpone a vaccination drive originally scheduled to begin on Monday.According to the global polio eradication initiative, 181 cases had been recorded worldwide this year between January and 13 August. A total of 71 were in Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan, countries where the disease is endemic.Bruce Aylward, who leads the World Health Organisation's global polio eradication campaign, pointed out that the actions of Gul Bahadur were not in line with the expressed views of the Afghan Taliban, which published a statement on its website two months ago about the importance of vaccinating children against polio (with the rider that it should be done in a manner appropriate for Muslims).Aylward said some of the reported cases were false alarms, with tests showing that children's symptoms were not caused by the polio virus. But, he added, cases were inevitable. \"This is one of the very few areas in the world that is affected by polio where there is no vaccination ongoing,\" he said. \"The endgame in stopping transmission is getting vaccination into every affected area. If we are not vaccinating, we are not eradicating.\"Experts are hopeful that vaccination may resume. A year has passed since it was suspended, making it probable that the political impact will have diminished. And while a ban can continue indefinitely while there are no polio cases, local sensitivities may change if children become sick or are harmed by the disease.Aylward pointed to conflict-hit areas such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo and northern Nigeria, where vaccination has resumed. \"In each case, with time and understanding for the consequences of their own children, it has been possible to get a dialogue,\" he said.Meanwhile, Israel has launched a mass inoculation programme, aimed at reaching more than a million under-10s over the next three months, after one of the three strains of polio was detected in the country's sewage system.No one in Israel has developed the virus since the discovery of type one in the south of the country earlier this year. It has since spread to sewage systems in the centre and the north. Type one was identified in neighbouring Egypt in December.Drops containing vaccine against types one and three of the virus are being administered orally at health clinics. Israel routinely immunises children against polio, but this campaign aims to boost the level of protection.About 182,000 children were inoculated in the first three days. A legal petition against the move, on the grounds that it was unnecessary and could be harmful, was dismissed by the high court.The last outbreak of polio in Israel was 25 years ago, and Aylward said the situation there is different to that in Pakistan. Like most countries that have eliminated polio, Israel has switched from oral drops to the inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), which is injected. The IPV prevents the virus causing illness but, if children or adults contract it, it will still travel through the gut.Israel, which has excellent surveillance systems, discovered the virus in the sewage system in February, said Aylward, but that happens in many countries using IPV. What is unusual is that it did not disappear and has since been detected in other parts of the country.The virus in the sewage is not a threat to children who have been immunised, but it is to the estimated 6% who have not been. \"So far, they have been lucky \u2013 there are no cases,\" said Aylward. Without the vaccination campaign, however, it would be surprising if cases did not occur.", "tags": ["Global development", "Polio", "Vaccines and immunisation", "Health", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan and Israel hit by polio setback"},{"date": "2013-08-20T22:16:53Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Compared with the announcement in June in which the Pakistani prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, declared his government's intention to press charges against Pervez Musharraf for treason, Tuesday's court indictment against the former military ruler for murder in connection with the assassination of Benazir Bhutto is a sideshow. Few analysts believe there is hard evidence linking Mr Musharraf to Bhutto's murder, although a UN report concluded that he failed to make serious efforts to ensure her safety. The treason charges, if they materialise, are a different matter, as the legal case that he subverted the constitution when he imposed emergency rule in late 2007 is relatively easy to make.Mr Musharraf already faces charges in four cases related to his period of rule. One way or another, it amounts to the same thing: putting a once untouchable general on trial. Pakistan's powerful military did not support his return from exile in London but they would also not want to see one of their own dragged through the courts. Much has changed in his absence. The chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, with whom Mr Musharraf feuded for most of his time in office, is about to retire. There has been an unprecedented outbreak of criticism against the chief justice, from within his own ranks, the Lahore High Bar Association, and from the politician Imran Khan. Mr Chaudhry no longer walks on water as far as many of his activist lawyers are concerned. It is likely that his replacement will not be as awkward a figure for Mr Sharif as Mr Chaudhry was to the former government.More importantly, the army, too, is about to have a new leader. In his forthcoming book, Getting Away With Murder, the man who led the UN investigation in Bhutto's assassination, Heraldo Mu\u00f1oz, describes the outgoing army chief, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, as a professional soldier of independent mind. Mr Mu\u00f1oz said that the general expressed doubts to him about the claim by his former boss Mr Musharraf that Bhutto had been assassinated by the Pakistani Taliban. He also spoke fondly of Bhutto, saying she had grown as a politician. All this further muddies the waters about who was really behind her assassination. The author himself concludes that almost everyone played a part.Mr Musharraf was ill advised to return to Pakistan, where his political support has evaporated and where he spends his time under house arrest. Even with a new army chief and chief justice, Mr Sharif will have to balance the demand to seek justice for emergency rule, with the needs of a military that remains the most powerful institution in the land. A presidential pardon for Mr Musharraf, if convicted, could be one way out. Establishing the rule of law is going to take somewhat longer.", "tags": ["Pervez Musharraf", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news", "Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan: the general is no longer untouchable | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-16T13:04:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two people were injured earlier today when four men stepped off their motorcycles and sprayed the Express News office in Karachi with gunfire.More than 30 rounds were fired at the building. A guard and a female member of staff were taken to hospital. Their condition is not known as I write.Express News is an Urdu language TV news channel that was launched in 2008. It is owned by the Lakson Group.Express Tribune writer Maheen Sabeeh commented hours after the shooting incident on the failure of the media community to condemn the attack. She wrote: \"Nobody bothered to cover this news. Geo, ARY, Capital TV, Aaj News, Dawn News, Dunya, TV One News, CNBC Pakistan \u2013 no one cared enough to even run a ticker on this tragic event.\"And Akmal Hussain, an economics professor and social activist, wrote:\"It is a matter of grave concern that such a dastardly attack has been made against the Express News, which is in the vanguard of the struggle against bigotry, barbarism and violence to sustain democracy, rationality and humanity in Pakistan.\"He called on Pakistan's prime minister Nawaz Sharif to defend the media and democracy. Early news reports said Sharif had demanded an immediate report on the attack.Sources: Express Tribune here & here/Private emails", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Human rights"], "title": "Gunmen fire on Pakistan TV offices"},{"date": "2013-08-07T02:42:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The dizzying range of threats to stability in Pakistan were on full display on Tuesday when militants of nearly all stripes launched attacks across the country, including on the highly sensitive border with India.The strikes by religious extremists and separatists, and border clashes in the disputed region of Kashmir, came amid a state of high alert in the capital, which is bracing itself for a possible spectacular attack in the runup to the religious holiday of Eid.The latest attack, on Wednesday morning, killed 11 people and had apparently targeted a provincial government minister after he watched a late-night football match in Karachi. He was unhurt when a bomb went off near his vehicle \u2013 young boys at the game comprised many of the dead and wounded. Imtiaz Gul, a security analyst, said the recently installed government of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, was being inundated with multiple crises, in contrast to the hopes of many observers that security might improve following May's elections.\"He finds a situation in which various parts of Pakistan are on fire,\" said Gul. \"This is a multi-dimensional challenge, with both sectarian groups and political Islamists inspired by al-Qaida. They are ratcheting up violence to put the government on the defensive.\"On Monday night dozens of gunmen dressed as security forces kidnapped a group of people travelling on a bus convoy in the south-western province of Baluchistan, shooting 13 of the passengers and dumping their bodies in a nearby gorge.The Baluchistan Liberation Army, a separatist group, claimed responsibility for the attack on travellers returning home for Eid.The bus was believed to be carrying people from Punjab, the province that dominates Pakistan politically and economically, to the resentment of some ethnic groups including many in Baluchistan.Normally bus convoys in Baluchistan are afforded police protection, but officials said local security forces were dealing with a nearby attack on a fuel truck that may have been a ruse to distract the authorities.In the early hours of Tuesday morning a police senior superintendent and two army officers were killed in the mountainous northern region of Gilgit-Baltistan when gunmen attacked a small security force convoy.The area has long been wracked by Sunni sectarian terrorist groups waging a bloody campaign against members of the minority Shia community. It is the same area where a group of 10 foreign climbers were killed last month in an unusual attack on Pakistan's small foreign tourist sector.A faction of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), an umbrella group of Pakistani militant groups that pledge loyalty to the leadership of the Afghan Taliban, claimed responsibility for the attack.Muhammad Navid, a senior local policeman, said the men had been attending a security meeting in the remote town of Chilas which had been called after intelligence reports warned that \"high-profile personalities\" were likely to be targeted by militants.\"When they finished their meeting and rushed back home they were ambushed a few metres from the house of the administration official,\" Navid said.In the nearby disputed region of Kashmir, five Indian soldiers were killed by what New Delhi claimed was firing by Pakistani troops across the \"line of control\" that marks the uneasy ceasefire point between the two countries.India's defence minister, AK Antony, said India strongly condemned the attack, which he claimed was carried out by \"20 heavily armed terrorists, along with persons in Pakistani army uniform\".Firing across the line of control and raids by Pakistan-based militant groups, many of which are believed to have ties with the Pakistani army, is a longstanding problem in the disputed region.Pakistan said Indian claims that its troops were involved were \"totally baseless\".The killings represents the first major challenge to Sharif's policy of improved relations and trade with India.Gul said Sharif had to contend with powerful \"war lobbies\" in both countries that had no interest in peace. \"There is a pattern in the past where we have also seen high-profile attacks designed to undermine any significant development between the countries or any development on the way to normalisation and dialogue.\"Only last Thursday India's foreign minister vowed that New Delhi would be \"picking up the threads\" of peace talks with the new Pakistani government, and Sharif vowed to resolve \"all longstanding issues with India, including Kashmir\".A major beefing up of security in Islamabad has heightened tensions. Pakistan's security agencies have reportedly intercepted messages between TTP commanders stating their desire to attack prominent targets, which are believed to include parliament and military buildings.The city has responded by erecting a towering line of concrete blast walls near the exit of the international airport, which cars are banned from entering after dark, creating chaos on the roads outside.Muhammad Rizwan, a senior officer from the Islamabad police, said extra men had been deployed to the city's landmark Faisal mosque, market places and 10 entry points to the city. \"All law enforcement agencies are performing on high alert, in their own sphere,\" he said.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan violence puts government on defensive"},{"date": "2013-09-27T19:45:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Three months after he came to power, Nawaz Sharif's counter-terrorism policy is in tatters. He was elected on a promise to hold peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban. An all-parties conference called on the prime minister to initiate a dialogue with all \"stakeholders\". The response of some of those with an interest and concern in the outcome (the dictionary definition) was to blow up 81 Christian worshippers outside a church in Peshawar on Sunday and follow that up yesterday by bombing a bus carrying government employees in the same province, killing at least 17 people. Although Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP) denied involvement in one of the worst attacks ever made on the Christian minority in the country, a previously unknown group, going under the Taliban umbrella, did claim responsibility.Although Christians are frequently targeted \u2013 in March, a mob swarmed through Lahore's Joseph Colony, setting 150 houses ablaze over alleged blasphemy charges against one resident \u2013 they are by no means the only minority to reap the full force of fundamentalist fury. Since last year, over 750 Shia Muslims have been killed in targeted attacks across Pakistan, many from the Hazaras in Balochistan. Figures like these have by now lost all meaning. Since 2001, well over 40,000 Pakistanis have perished in this maelstrom. It is the responsibility of any government, let alone a popularly elected civilian one, to attempt to halt this weekly carnage. Mr Sharif's decision to release Abdul Ghani Baradar, the Taliban's former second-in-command, to initiate a peace process between Kabul and the Afghan Taliban, was rightly welcomed. That war, as we have said many times, can only be solved at the negotiating table, and Pakistan's involvement is essential. The drone attacks, which account for up to 3,000 deaths (although these figures are disputed, too), only prolong the agony.But there is a big distance to be travelled from that position to pretending that the Pakistani state can accommodate the agenda of the TTP, al-Qaida and other militant groups. It is also Mr Sharif's responsibility to protect religious minorities and uphold basic rights, as Human Rights Watch said in its recent letter to him. The assumption that buying space for the Afghan Taliban is going to help with the TTP is erroneous. The public discourse in Pakistan suffers from a false binary that the TTP is a function of the drone strikes. The challenge it poses the state is more fundamental than that. Fundamentalism is a product of decades of official complicity, cowardice and appeasement. Sooner or later, Mr Sharif will be forced to realise that. Until then, he is merely kicking the can down the road.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan: kicking the can down the road | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-31T04:32:57Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "What was the occasion?My family and friends all love food, so there's always an excuse to have people over. This sunny afternoon, I\u00a0invited my mum, uncle and cousins and a few friends who live locally. The weather forecast for the weekend was bright and sunny, so we decided to have an Indian-style afternoon tea in the garden \u2013 a mix of sweet and savoury foods, served with masala chai\u00a0and lime and mint water.What was on the menu?In our family, the unspoken rule when it comes to afternoon tea is to make enough food for any last-minute guests, so I always make plenty of dishes. Onion bhajiya are a perennial favourite, though. My twist is to really pack in the onion, so there's less batter, and to fry them for a little longer so they caramelise. I always serve them with a hot and sweet chutney, which is my dad's recipe. I feel like I'm reliving my childhood when I make it \u2013 it's a rock-steady companion that never fails to finish off a dish nicely.Unlike British afternoon tea, where you sip your chosen brew throughout, masala chai is served with the savoury bhajiya and vegetable pakoras. If you take a bite of the bhajiya, then a sip of chai, the tea intensifies the taste of the cumin and nigella seeds in the bhajiya,\u00a0and the flavours really pop \u2013 it's just heavenly.One of the sweet dishes I always make is badaam phirni; it's like a more elegant cousin of traditional rice pudding. It can be served either hot or cold and it has a lovely smooth texture that's complemented by some crunch from the crushed pistachios on top. As\u00a0kids, we would always eat halwa, and the adults would eat phirni \u2013 it was a sign that you'd grown up when you could have some. It's a much more sophisticated taste than halwa, so you can only really eat it in small amounts.What did you talk about?The weather, of course! We all agreed how nice it was to spend so much time outside this summer.My mum and uncle reminisced about eating halwa in the food bazaars of Pakistan, and talked about their favourite street-food vendors. Nowadays, street food is hugely popular, but for them, growing up in Pakistan during the 1940s and 1950s, it\u00a0was just how everyone ate. A lot of my recipes have been handed down to me\u00a0from my uncle and my father, so my uncle gave his verdict on the\u00a0dishes, too!We also discussed the menu for my next \"cash 'n' curry\" supper club. I\u00a0cook around four or five courses. We\u00a0don't provide a guide price, we just ask diners to pay what they think the meal is worth into a blind collection at the end. We then give all the money to a project that helps people living in slums in Chennai. A recent cash 'n' curry night raised enough money to fund a medical programme for an entire year, supporting a nurse, a\u00a0visiting doctor, and basic medicine for more than 40 families, while another evening raised enough cash to put 12 young people through full-time education for a year. We don't take a\u00a0cut for our time, or the ingredients \u2013 at\u00a0the end of the evening we just count it up and know that whatever money is there will change people's lives.My take on the classic savoury snack, served with my father, Victor's, chutney \u2013 affectionately known as\u00a0Vicki chutney.Serves 6 150g gram flour\u00bd tsp bicarbonate of soda2 tsp cumin seeds2 tsp nigella seeds5-6 large onions, finely slicedVegetable oil, for fryingSaltFor the chutney\u00bd onion, peeled and roughly chopped1 tomato, roughly chopped2 tsp tamarind concentrate1 green chilli2 cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped1 garlic clove1 handful of mint and coriander leaves1 tbsp flaked coconut50ml waterJuice of \u00bd lemonSalt1 In a big bowl, tip in the flour and add enough water to create a thick batter. Sprinkle in the bicarbonate of soda and both types of seeds with some salt to season. Put in the onions and mix well.2 Using a large wok or deep frying pan, pour in the oil to a depth of 2-3cm and heat to a medium-high temperature. Drop in a cumin seed. If it sizzles, the oil is ready. Using a ladle, gently lower spoonfuls of the mix into the oil. Fry for around 4 minutes until golden brown, then drain on kitchen paper.3 To make the chutney, put all the ingredients in a blender, then blitz until smooth. The result will be a\u00a0sharp, fresh-scented mix.This pudding is best presented in small bowls with little spoons.Serves 4-620 almonds or 4 tbsp flaked almonds600ml whole milk4 tbsp rice flour4 tbsp unrefined sugar10 saffron strands1 tsp ground cardamom 12 pistachios, crushed1 Blanch the almonds and remove their skins. Alternatively, use flaked almonds. Use a hand blender to grind the almonds in 120ml milk to produce a paste. Transfer to a bowl and mix in the rice flour.2 In a saucepan, bring the rest of the milk to the boil and tip in the sugar, stirring until it dissolves. Spoon 1\u00a0tbsp hot milk into a small bowl and steep with the saffron. Strain this back into the saucepan and add the almond paste. Gently stir until the mix thickens and becomes creamy, then shake in the cardamom powder. Cool, then sprinkle pistachios over the dessert and chill for an hour.The food served at afternoon teas will vary with our moods, but the masala chai recipe never does.Serves 8 1.1 litres milk1.4 litres water2cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped10 green cardamom pods, crushed6 cloves, coarsely ground1 tsp ground fennel seeds1 cinnamon stick3 English breakfast tea bagsSugar, to taste1 Heat the milk, water, ginger and spices in a pan, letting it simmer for about 15 minutes until the volume has\u00a0reduced a little. The liquid will smell deliciously fragrant.2 Take off the heat and drop in the teabags, allowing it to brew for a couple of minutes, or longer if you like it stronger. Strain through a sieve into tea glasses or cups and sweeten according to your taste.Ivor Peters is the author of The Urban Rajah's Curry Memoirs (Headline); urbanrajah.com", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Afternoon tea by way of Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-08-29T14:06:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani administrator has overturned a judgment sentencing a doctor who helped CIA agents hunting the al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden to 33 years in prison.Lawyers for Shakil Afridi, who was convicted of treason in May last year, played down his chances of release, but experts said the decision could be related to a recent improvement in difficult relations between the US and Pakistan. John Kerry, the US secretary of state, raised the issue of Afridi's imprisonment when visiting Islamabad in July.Michael Kugelman, south Asia expert at the Woodrow Wilson Centre in Washington DC, said: \"The US considers this a priority issue. It is a very dysfunctional relationship but has perhaps stabilised to the point where Pakistan is ready to act on a request like this.\"Afridi, a former public health officer who reportedly did not know exactly whom the CIA was trying to target when he agreed to work for them, was arrested following the night-time raid on Bin Laden's compound on 2 May 2011.As first revealed by the Guardian, in the weeks running up to the assault by US navy seals Afridi ran a bogus hepatitis B vaccination campaign for the CIA, designed to collect blood samples in the hope of finding people who matched the Bin Laden family DNA. A match would have helped to definitively identify the extremist leader.Afridi, 49, was not charged over that alleged offence but for his links with Lashkar-e-Islam, an Islamic militant group active in Khyber agency. He was found guilty of conspiring against the state.Sahibzada Mohammad Anees, who oversees the implementation of local laws in Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal agencies, ruled that the official who heard the case exceeded his authority when handing down the sentence last year.That judgment was passed in consultation with tribal elders in Khyber agency, which lies between the frontier city of Peshawar and the border with Afghanistan. Anees ordered a new trial.Afridi's sentence angered the US, which withheld \u00a322m in aid for Pakistan in retaliation. The then US defence secretary, Leon Panetta, publicly stated that Afridi \"was not in any way doing anything that would have undermined Pakistan\". However, it was welcomed by Pakistani security agencies who said the physician had got what he deserved.There have been signs that Pakistan's civilian bureaucracy and courts are increasingly prepared to challenge the country's powerful security establishment.A court in Peshawar recently ordered authorities to pay compensation to the mother of a man who was abducted and killed, reportedly by Pakistani security agencies.In July an unpublished report by a committee overseen by a former top judge seeking to answer questions as to how Bin Laden apparently remained undetected in Pakistan for nearly a decade was leaked to the media.It was fiercely critical of police and intelligence agencies, calling for a wholesale change in attitudes and working practices.However, more than two years after the killing of Bin Laden, Afridi is the only person to have been arrested in connection with the event.The raid, conducted by US special forces transported from Afghanistan in stealth helicopters that evaded Pakistan's air defences, was seen as a humiliation for the country's military establishment. It severely undermined relations between the US and Pakistan.Afridi's lawyer, Samiullah Afridi, said he was not hopeful about any retrial. \"The [original] decision was announced by an assistant political agent, who is an administrator, and it is going back to him [to decide again].\"We do not have any expectations because whatever happens will be according to what the [security] agencies want. We want that Dr Shakil Afridi should be tried by a lower-level judge, at the very least,\" he said.The appeal was heard by a bureaucrat because under the colonial-era laws in place in Pakistan's tribal agencies the decisions of political agents, the officials charged with administering justice in the agencies, cannot be heard in a court of law.The lawyer Afridi said he had been unable to contact his client and inform him of the ruling.\"His lawyers and his family have not been able to meet him for at least eight to nine months, but perhaps he has seen the news if it has appeared in the media,\" the lawyer, who is not related to his client, told the Guardian.The plan to obtain DNA samples from Osama bin Laden's family to confirm his presence in the Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad was set in motion after US intelligence agencies tracked a courier known to be linked to al-Qaida to a large, non-descript compound with high security where, they learned, a tall man with an extensive family lived.The agency monitored the compound from satellites and through surveillance from a CIA safehouse nearby, but wanted further confirmation that Bin Laden was present before mounting a risky operation inside another country. DNA from any of the Bin Laden children or grandchildren in the compound could be compared with a sample from the al-Qaida leader's sister, who died in Boston in 2010, to provide evidence that the family was present.So agents approached Dr Shahid Afridi, the health official in charge of Khyber, part of a tribal area that runs along the Afghan border close to Abbottabad. He agreed to help. The doctor went to Abbottabad in March 2011, claiming to have procured funds to give free vaccinations to locals against hepatitis B. Bypassing local health service officials, he paid generous sums to low-ranking local government health workers to administer vaccines door to door in Bin Laden's neighbourhood.One consequence of the operation has been to deepen existing suspicions among many in Pakistan that polio vaccines are part of a western plot against Islam. This has been described as a major setback in efforts to tackle the disease.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Osama bin Laden", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan overturns Bin Laden doctor's jail sentence"},{"date": "2013-08-22T16:19:22Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The battle to eliminate polio has hit apparent setbacks in northern Pakistan, where new cases are being reported, and in Israel, where the discovery of the virus in the sewage system has led to a mass immunisation campaign.Fourteen suspected cases of polio have been discovered in Pakistan's insurgency-racked north-west, where Taliban militants have banned vaccination workers.Although the country is awaiting the result of tests on stool samples from the affected children, a surge in cases could strike a major blow to the government's intense efforts to exit the small group of nations that has failed to eradicate the disease.All but two of the children were from North Waziristan, the most troubled of the seven tribal \"agencies\" that comprise the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, a semi-autonomous region of Pakistan that borders Afghanistan and is a hotbed for militancy.The majority of strikes by the CIA's unmanned drone campaign occur in North Waziristan, a situation that last year prompted Taliban commander Hafiz Gul Bahadur to block the anti-polio campaign in the agency. Militants in other areas have enacted similar bans, saying they will lift them only when drone strikes end.In North and South Waziristan, more than 260,000 under fives have not been immunised since June 2012. In tribal, highly conservative parts of the country health workers are regarded with intense suspicion. Popular fears are often stoked by local religious leaders who claim the vaccines are part of a western plot to sterilise Muslims.Elsewhere in the country, monsoon floods, insecurity and a string of byelections have forced authorities to postpone a vaccination drive originally scheduled to begin on Monday.According to the global polio eradication initiative, 181 cases had been recorded worldwide this year between January and 13 August. A total of 71 were in Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan, countries where the disease is endemic.Bruce Aylward, who leads the World Health Organisation's global polio eradication campaign, pointed out that the actions of Gul Bahadur were not in line with the expressed views of the Afghan Taliban, which published a statement on its website two months ago about the importance of vaccinating children against polio (with the rider that it should be done in a manner appropriate for Muslims).Aylward said some of the reported cases were false alarms, with tests showing that children's symptoms were not caused by the polio virus. But, he added, cases were inevitable. \"This is one of the very few areas in the world that is affected by polio where there is no vaccination ongoing,\" he said. \"The endgame in stopping transmission is getting vaccination into every affected area. If we are not vaccinating, we are not eradicating.\"Experts are hopeful that vaccination may resume. A year has passed since it was suspended, making it probable that the political impact will have diminished. And while a ban can continue indefinitely while there are no polio cases, local sensitivities may change if children become sick or are harmed by the disease.Aylward pointed to conflict-hit areas such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo and northern Nigeria, where vaccination has resumed. \"In each case, with time and understanding for the consequences of their own children, it has been possible to get a dialogue,\" he said.Meanwhile, Israel has launched a mass inoculation programme, aimed at reaching more than a million under-10s over the next three months, after one of the three strains of polio was detected in the country's sewage system.No one in Israel has developed the virus since the discovery of type one in the south of the country earlier this year. It has since spread to sewage systems in the centre and the north. Type one was identified in neighbouring Egypt in December.Drops containing vaccine against types one and three of the virus are being administered orally at health clinics. Israel routinely immunises children against polio, but this campaign aims to boost the level of protection.About 182,000 children were inoculated in the first three days. A legal petition against the move, on the grounds that it was unnecessary and could be harmful, was dismissed by the high court.The last outbreak of polio in Israel was 25 years ago, and Aylward said the situation there is different to that in Pakistan. Like most countries that have eliminated polio, Israel has switched from oral drops to the inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), which is injected. The IPV prevents the virus causing illness but, if children or adults contract it, it will still travel through the gut.Israel, which has excellent surveillance systems, discovered the virus in the sewage system in February, said Aylward, but that happens in many countries using IPV. What is unusual is that it did not disappear and has since been detected in other parts of the country.The virus in the sewage is not a threat to children who have been immunised, but it is to the estimated 6% who have not been. \"So far, they have been lucky \u2013 there are no cases,\" said Aylward. Without the vaccination campaign, however, it would be surprising if cases did not occur.", "tags": ["Global development", "Polio", "Vaccines and immunisation", "Health", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan and Israel hit by polio setback"},{"date": "2013-08-20T22:16:53Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Compared with the announcement in June in which the Pakistani prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, declared his government's intention to press charges against Pervez Musharraf for treason, Tuesday's court indictment against the former military ruler for murder in connection with the assassination of Benazir Bhutto is a sideshow. Few analysts believe there is hard evidence linking Mr Musharraf to Bhutto's murder, although a UN report concluded that he failed to make serious efforts to ensure her safety. The treason charges, if they materialise, are a different matter, as the legal case that he subverted the constitution when he imposed emergency rule in late 2007 is relatively easy to make.Mr Musharraf already faces charges in four cases related to his period of rule. One way or another, it amounts to the same thing: putting a once untouchable general on trial. Pakistan's powerful military did not support his return from exile in London but they would also not want to see one of their own dragged through the courts. Much has changed in his absence. The chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, with whom Mr Musharraf feuded for most of his time in office, is about to retire. There has been an unprecedented outbreak of criticism against the chief justice, from within his own ranks, the Lahore High Bar Association, and from the politician Imran Khan. Mr Chaudhry no longer walks on water as far as many of his activist lawyers are concerned. It is likely that his replacement will not be as awkward a figure for Mr Sharif as Mr Chaudhry was to the former government.More importantly, the army, too, is about to have a new leader. In his forthcoming book, Getting Away With Murder, the man who led the UN investigation in Bhutto's assassination, Heraldo Mu\u00f1oz, describes the outgoing army chief, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, as a professional soldier of independent mind. Mr Mu\u00f1oz said that the general expressed doubts to him about the claim by his former boss Mr Musharraf that Bhutto had been assassinated by the Pakistani Taliban. He also spoke fondly of Bhutto, saying she had grown as a politician. All this further muddies the waters about who was really behind her assassination. The author himself concludes that almost everyone played a part.Mr Musharraf was ill advised to return to Pakistan, where his political support has evaporated and where he spends his time under house arrest. Even with a new army chief and chief justice, Mr Sharif will have to balance the demand to seek justice for emergency rule, with the needs of a military that remains the most powerful institution in the land. A presidential pardon for Mr Musharraf, if convicted, could be one way out. Establishing the rule of law is going to take somewhat longer.", "tags": ["Pervez Musharraf", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news", "Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan: the general is no longer untouchable | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-16T13:04:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two people were injured earlier today when four men stepped off their motorcycles and sprayed the Express News office in Karachi with gunfire.More than 30 rounds were fired at the building. A guard and a female member of staff were taken to hospital. Their condition is not known as I write.Express News is an Urdu language TV news channel that was launched in 2008. It is owned by the Lakson Group.Express Tribune writer Maheen Sabeeh commented hours after the shooting incident on the failure of the media community to condemn the attack. She wrote: \"Nobody bothered to cover this news. Geo, ARY, Capital TV, Aaj News, Dawn News, Dunya, TV One News, CNBC Pakistan \u2013 no one cared enough to even run a ticker on this tragic event.\"And Akmal Hussain, an economics professor and social activist, wrote:\"It is a matter of grave concern that such a dastardly attack has been made against the Express News, which is in the vanguard of the struggle against bigotry, barbarism and violence to sustain democracy, rationality and humanity in Pakistan.\"He called on Pakistan's prime minister Nawaz Sharif to defend the media and democracy. Early news reports said Sharif had demanded an immediate report on the attack.Sources: Express Tribune here & here/Private emails", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Human rights"], "title": "Gunmen fire on Pakistan TV offices"},{"date": "2013-08-07T02:42:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The dizzying range of threats to stability in Pakistan were on full display on Tuesday when militants of nearly all stripes launched attacks across the country, including on the highly sensitive border with India.The strikes by religious extremists and separatists, and border clashes in the disputed region of Kashmir, came amid a state of high alert in the capital, which is bracing itself for a possible spectacular attack in the runup to the religious holiday of Eid.The latest attack, on Wednesday morning, killed 11 people and had apparently targeted a provincial government minister after he watched a late-night football match in Karachi. He was unhurt when a bomb went off near his vehicle \u2013 young boys at the game comprised many of the dead and wounded. Imtiaz Gul, a security analyst, said the recently installed government of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, was being inundated with multiple crises, in contrast to the hopes of many observers that security might improve following May's elections.\"He finds a situation in which various parts of Pakistan are on fire,\" said Gul. \"This is a multi-dimensional challenge, with both sectarian groups and political Islamists inspired by al-Qaida. They are ratcheting up violence to put the government on the defensive.\"On Monday night dozens of gunmen dressed as security forces kidnapped a group of people travelling on a bus convoy in the south-western province of Baluchistan, shooting 13 of the passengers and dumping their bodies in a nearby gorge.The Baluchistan Liberation Army, a separatist group, claimed responsibility for the attack on travellers returning home for Eid.The bus was believed to be carrying people from Punjab, the province that dominates Pakistan politically and economically, to the resentment of some ethnic groups including many in Baluchistan.Normally bus convoys in Baluchistan are afforded police protection, but officials said local security forces were dealing with a nearby attack on a fuel truck that may have been a ruse to distract the authorities.In the early hours of Tuesday morning a police senior superintendent and two army officers were killed in the mountainous northern region of Gilgit-Baltistan when gunmen attacked a small security force convoy.The area has long been wracked by Sunni sectarian terrorist groups waging a bloody campaign against members of the minority Shia community. It is the same area where a group of 10 foreign climbers were killed last month in an unusual attack on Pakistan's small foreign tourist sector.A faction of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), an umbrella group of Pakistani militant groups that pledge loyalty to the leadership of the Afghan Taliban, claimed responsibility for the attack.Muhammad Navid, a senior local policeman, said the men had been attending a security meeting in the remote town of Chilas which had been called after intelligence reports warned that \"high-profile personalities\" were likely to be targeted by militants.\"When they finished their meeting and rushed back home they were ambushed a few metres from the house of the administration official,\" Navid said.In the nearby disputed region of Kashmir, five Indian soldiers were killed by what New Delhi claimed was firing by Pakistani troops across the \"line of control\" that marks the uneasy ceasefire point between the two countries.India's defence minister, AK Antony, said India strongly condemned the attack, which he claimed was carried out by \"20 heavily armed terrorists, along with persons in Pakistani army uniform\".Firing across the line of control and raids by Pakistan-based militant groups, many of which are believed to have ties with the Pakistani army, is a longstanding problem in the disputed region.Pakistan said Indian claims that its troops were involved were \"totally baseless\".The killings represents the first major challenge to Sharif's policy of improved relations and trade with India.Gul said Sharif had to contend with powerful \"war lobbies\" in both countries that had no interest in peace. \"There is a pattern in the past where we have also seen high-profile attacks designed to undermine any significant development between the countries or any development on the way to normalisation and dialogue.\"Only last Thursday India's foreign minister vowed that New Delhi would be \"picking up the threads\" of peace talks with the new Pakistani government, and Sharif vowed to resolve \"all longstanding issues with India, including Kashmir\".A major beefing up of security in Islamabad has heightened tensions. Pakistan's security agencies have reportedly intercepted messages between TTP commanders stating their desire to attack prominent targets, which are believed to include parliament and military buildings.The city has responded by erecting a towering line of concrete blast walls near the exit of the international airport, which cars are banned from entering after dark, creating chaos on the roads outside.Muhammad Rizwan, a senior officer from the Islamabad police, said extra men had been deployed to the city's landmark Faisal mosque, market places and 10 entry points to the city. \"All law enforcement agencies are performing on high alert, in their own sphere,\" he said.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan violence puts government on defensive"},{"date": "2013-09-27T11:49:18Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The latest cover of a magazine called Newsweek Pakistan is nothing if not controversial.Under the headline \"Lady parts\", it carries a provocative image of two tampons in which one is treated as a sort of fuse that leads to an exploding bomb. The sub-deck says: \"More and more women are finding their true calling - as suicide bombers\". That is also the headline over the inside story. Many people who have come across the image online have registered their disgust on Twitter. One called it \"the single most insane magazine cover I've ever seen.\" Another asked: \"Is this even real?\"But people who have also taken the trouble to read the article have tended to be more understanding about the decision to use such an image.It explains why some women feel compelled to offer themselves as bombers, even seeking out the Taliban in order to join their ranks.The writers also explore how the Taliban goes about selecting women to take on suicide missions and the problems confronting the Pakistan authorities in trying to persuade women not to become involved.Newsweek Pakistan is published by Associated Group (AG) Publications under licence from the US publisher of Newsweek/Daily Beast. It was launched in 2010. (Newsweek in the US stopped publishing at the end of last year). Sources: Newsweek Pakistan/Buzzfeed", "tags": ["Media", "Pakistan", "Magazines", "World news", "Women", "Twitter"], "title": "Pakistan magazine's controversial cover on female suicide bombers"},{"date": "2013-09-27T19:45:36Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Three months after he came to power, Nawaz Sharif's counter-terrorism policy is in tatters. He was elected on a promise to hold peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban. An all-parties conference called on the prime minister to initiate a dialogue with all \"stakeholders\". The response of some of those with an interest and concern in the outcome (the dictionary definition) was to blow up 81 Christian worshippers outside a church in Peshawar on Sunday and follow that up yesterday by bombing a bus carrying government employees in the same province, killing at least 17 people. Although Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP) denied involvement in one of the worst attacks ever made on the Christian minority in the country, a previously unknown group, going under the Taliban umbrella, did claim responsibility.Although Christians are frequently targeted \u2013 in March, a mob swarmed through Lahore's Joseph Colony, setting 150 houses ablaze over alleged blasphemy charges against one resident \u2013 they are by no means the only minority to reap the full force of fundamentalist fury. Since last year, over 750 Shia Muslims have been killed in targeted attacks across Pakistan, many from the Hazaras in Balochistan. Figures like these have by now lost all meaning. Since 2001, well over 40,000 Pakistanis have perished in this maelstrom. It is the responsibility of any government, let alone a popularly elected civilian one, to attempt to halt this weekly carnage. Mr Sharif's decision to release Abdul Ghani Baradar, the Taliban's former second-in-command, to initiate a peace process between Kabul and the Afghan Taliban, was rightly welcomed. That war, as we have said many times, can only be solved at the negotiating table, and Pakistan's involvement is essential. The drone attacks, which account for up to 3,000 deaths (although these figures are disputed, too), only prolong the agony.But there is a big distance to be travelled from that position to pretending that the Pakistani state can accommodate the agenda of the TTP, al-Qaida and other militant groups. It is also Mr Sharif's responsibility to protect religious minorities and uphold basic rights, as Human Rights Watch said in its recent letter to him. The assumption that buying space for the Afghan Taliban is going to help with the TTP is erroneous. The public discourse in Pakistan suffers from a false binary that the TTP is a function of the drone strikes. The challenge it poses the state is more fundamental than that. Fundamentalism is a product of decades of official complicity, cowardice and appeasement. Sooner or later, Mr Sharif will be forced to realise that. Until then, he is merely kicking the can down the road.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan: kicking the can down the road | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-31T04:32:57Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "What was the occasion?My family and friends all love food, so there's always an excuse to have people over. This sunny afternoon, I\u00a0invited my mum, uncle and cousins and a few friends who live locally. The weather forecast for the weekend was bright and sunny, so we decided to have an Indian-style afternoon tea in the garden \u2013 a mix of sweet and savoury foods, served with masala chai\u00a0and lime and mint water.What was on the menu?In our family, the unspoken rule when it comes to afternoon tea is to make enough food for any last-minute guests, so I always make plenty of dishes. Onion bhajiya are a perennial favourite, though. My twist is to really pack in the onion, so there's less batter, and to fry them for a little longer so they caramelise. I always serve them with a hot and sweet chutney, which is my dad's recipe. I feel like I'm reliving my childhood when I make it \u2013 it's a rock-steady companion that never fails to finish off a dish nicely.Unlike British afternoon tea, where you sip your chosen brew throughout, masala chai is served with the savoury bhajiya and vegetable pakoras. If you take a bite of the bhajiya, then a sip of chai, the tea intensifies the taste of the cumin and nigella seeds in the bhajiya,\u00a0and the flavours really pop \u2013 it's just heavenly.One of the sweet dishes I always make is badaam phirni; it's like a more elegant cousin of traditional rice pudding. It can be served either hot or cold and it has a lovely smooth texture that's complemented by some crunch from the crushed pistachios on top. As\u00a0kids, we would always eat halwa, and the adults would eat phirni \u2013 it was a sign that you'd grown up when you could have some. It's a much more sophisticated taste than halwa, so you can only really eat it in small amounts.What did you talk about?The weather, of course! We all agreed how nice it was to spend so much time outside this summer.My mum and uncle reminisced about eating halwa in the food bazaars of Pakistan, and talked about their favourite street-food vendors. Nowadays, street food is hugely popular, but for them, growing up in Pakistan during the 1940s and 1950s, it\u00a0was just how everyone ate. A lot of my recipes have been handed down to me\u00a0from my uncle and my father, so my uncle gave his verdict on the\u00a0dishes, too!We also discussed the menu for my next \"cash 'n' curry\" supper club. I\u00a0cook around four or five courses. We\u00a0don't provide a guide price, we just ask diners to pay what they think the meal is worth into a blind collection at the end. We then give all the money to a project that helps people living in slums in Chennai. A recent cash 'n' curry night raised enough money to fund a medical programme for an entire year, supporting a nurse, a\u00a0visiting doctor, and basic medicine for more than 40 families, while another evening raised enough cash to put 12 young people through full-time education for a year. We don't take a\u00a0cut for our time, or the ingredients \u2013 at\u00a0the end of the evening we just count it up and know that whatever money is there will change people's lives.My take on the classic savoury snack, served with my father, Victor's, chutney \u2013 affectionately known as\u00a0Vicki chutney.Serves 6 150g gram flour\u00bd tsp bicarbonate of soda2 tsp cumin seeds2 tsp nigella seeds5-6 large onions, finely slicedVegetable oil, for fryingSaltFor the chutney\u00bd onion, peeled and roughly chopped1 tomato, roughly chopped2 tsp tamarind concentrate1 green chilli2 cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped1 garlic clove1 handful of mint and coriander leaves1 tbsp flaked coconut50ml waterJuice of \u00bd lemonSalt1 In a big bowl, tip in the flour and add enough water to create a thick batter. Sprinkle in the bicarbonate of soda and both types of seeds with some salt to season. Put in the onions and mix well.2 Using a large wok or deep frying pan, pour in the oil to a depth of 2-3cm and heat to a medium-high temperature. Drop in a cumin seed. If it sizzles, the oil is ready. Using a ladle, gently lower spoonfuls of the mix into the oil. Fry for around 4 minutes until golden brown, then drain on kitchen paper.3 To make the chutney, put all the ingredients in a blender, then blitz until smooth. The result will be a\u00a0sharp, fresh-scented mix.This pudding is best presented in small bowls with little spoons.Serves 4-620 almonds or 4 tbsp flaked almonds600ml whole milk4 tbsp rice flour4 tbsp unrefined sugar10 saffron strands1 tsp ground cardamom 12 pistachios, crushed1 Blanch the almonds and remove their skins. Alternatively, use flaked almonds. Use a hand blender to grind the almonds in 120ml milk to produce a paste. Transfer to a bowl and mix in the rice flour.2 In a saucepan, bring the rest of the milk to the boil and tip in the sugar, stirring until it dissolves. Spoon 1\u00a0tbsp hot milk into a small bowl and steep with the saffron. Strain this back into the saucepan and add the almond paste. Gently stir until the mix thickens and becomes creamy, then shake in the cardamom powder. Cool, then sprinkle pistachios over the dessert and chill for an hour.The food served at afternoon teas will vary with our moods, but the masala chai recipe never does.Serves 8 1.1 litres milk1.4 litres water2cm root ginger, peeled and finely chopped10 green cardamom pods, crushed6 cloves, coarsely ground1 tsp ground fennel seeds1 cinnamon stick3 English breakfast tea bagsSugar, to taste1 Heat the milk, water, ginger and spices in a pan, letting it simmer for about 15 minutes until the volume has\u00a0reduced a little. The liquid will smell deliciously fragrant.2 Take off the heat and drop in the teabags, allowing it to brew for a couple of minutes, or longer if you like it stronger. Strain through a sieve into tea glasses or cups and sweeten according to your taste.Ivor Peters is the author of The Urban Rajah's Curry Memoirs (Headline); urbanrajah.com", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Afternoon tea by way of Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-08-29T14:06:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani administrator has overturned a judgment sentencing a doctor who helped CIA agents hunting the al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden to 33 years in prison.Lawyers for Shakil Afridi, who was convicted of treason in May last year, played down his chances of release, but experts said the decision could be related to a recent improvement in difficult relations between the US and Pakistan. John Kerry, the US secretary of state, raised the issue of Afridi's imprisonment when visiting Islamabad in July.Michael Kugelman, south Asia expert at the Woodrow Wilson Centre in Washington DC, said: \"The US considers this a priority issue. It is a very dysfunctional relationship but has perhaps stabilised to the point where Pakistan is ready to act on a request like this.\"Afridi, a former public health officer who reportedly did not know exactly whom the CIA was trying to target when he agreed to work for them, was arrested following the night-time raid on Bin Laden's compound on 2 May 2011.As first revealed by the Guardian, in the weeks running up to the assault by US navy seals Afridi ran a bogus hepatitis B vaccination campaign for the CIA, designed to collect blood samples in the hope of finding people who matched the Bin Laden family DNA. A match would have helped to definitively identify the extremist leader.Afridi, 49, was not charged over that alleged offence but for his links with Lashkar-e-Islam, an Islamic militant group active in Khyber agency. He was found guilty of conspiring against the state.Sahibzada Mohammad Anees, who oversees the implementation of local laws in Pakistan's semi-autonomous tribal agencies, ruled that the official who heard the case exceeded his authority when handing down the sentence last year.That judgment was passed in consultation with tribal elders in Khyber agency, which lies between the frontier city of Peshawar and the border with Afghanistan. Anees ordered a new trial.Afridi's sentence angered the US, which withheld \u00a322m in aid for Pakistan in retaliation. The then US defence secretary, Leon Panetta, publicly stated that Afridi \"was not in any way doing anything that would have undermined Pakistan\". However, it was welcomed by Pakistani security agencies who said the physician had got what he deserved.There have been signs that Pakistan's civilian bureaucracy and courts are increasingly prepared to challenge the country's powerful security establishment.A court in Peshawar recently ordered authorities to pay compensation to the mother of a man who was abducted and killed, reportedly by Pakistani security agencies.In July an unpublished report by a committee overseen by a former top judge seeking to answer questions as to how Bin Laden apparently remained undetected in Pakistan for nearly a decade was leaked to the media.It was fiercely critical of police and intelligence agencies, calling for a wholesale change in attitudes and working practices.However, more than two years after the killing of Bin Laden, Afridi is the only person to have been arrested in connection with the event.The raid, conducted by US special forces transported from Afghanistan in stealth helicopters that evaded Pakistan's air defences, was seen as a humiliation for the country's military establishment. It severely undermined relations between the US and Pakistan.Afridi's lawyer, Samiullah Afridi, said he was not hopeful about any retrial. \"The [original] decision was announced by an assistant political agent, who is an administrator, and it is going back to him [to decide again].\"We do not have any expectations because whatever happens will be according to what the [security] agencies want. We want that Dr Shakil Afridi should be tried by a lower-level judge, at the very least,\" he said.The appeal was heard by a bureaucrat because under the colonial-era laws in place in Pakistan's tribal agencies the decisions of political agents, the officials charged with administering justice in the agencies, cannot be heard in a court of law.The lawyer Afridi said he had been unable to contact his client and inform him of the ruling.\"His lawyers and his family have not been able to meet him for at least eight to nine months, but perhaps he has seen the news if it has appeared in the media,\" the lawyer, who is not related to his client, told the Guardian.The plan to obtain DNA samples from Osama bin Laden's family to confirm his presence in the Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad was set in motion after US intelligence agencies tracked a courier known to be linked to al-Qaida to a large, non-descript compound with high security where, they learned, a tall man with an extensive family lived.The agency monitored the compound from satellites and through surveillance from a CIA safehouse nearby, but wanted further confirmation that Bin Laden was present before mounting a risky operation inside another country. DNA from any of the Bin Laden children or grandchildren in the compound could be compared with a sample from the al-Qaida leader's sister, who died in Boston in 2010, to provide evidence that the family was present.So agents approached Dr Shahid Afridi, the health official in charge of Khyber, part of a tribal area that runs along the Afghan border close to Abbottabad. He agreed to help. The doctor went to Abbottabad in March 2011, claiming to have procured funds to give free vaccinations to locals against hepatitis B. Bypassing local health service officials, he paid generous sums to low-ranking local government health workers to administer vaccines door to door in Bin Laden's neighbourhood.One consequence of the operation has been to deepen existing suspicions among many in Pakistan that polio vaccines are part of a western plot against Islam. This has been described as a major setback in efforts to tackle the disease.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Osama bin Laden", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan overturns Bin Laden doctor's jail sentence"},{"date": "2013-08-22T16:19:22Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The battle to eliminate polio has hit apparent setbacks in northern Pakistan, where new cases are being reported, and in Israel, where the discovery of the virus in the sewage system has led to a mass immunisation campaign.Fourteen suspected cases of polio have been discovered in Pakistan's insurgency-racked north-west, where Taliban militants have banned vaccination workers.Although the country is awaiting the result of tests on stool samples from the affected children, a surge in cases could strike a major blow to the government's intense efforts to exit the small group of nations that has failed to eradicate the disease.All but two of the children were from North Waziristan, the most troubled of the seven tribal \"agencies\" that comprise the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, a semi-autonomous region of Pakistan that borders Afghanistan and is a hotbed for militancy.The majority of strikes by the CIA's unmanned drone campaign occur in North Waziristan, a situation that last year prompted Taliban commander Hafiz Gul Bahadur to block the anti-polio campaign in the agency. Militants in other areas have enacted similar bans, saying they will lift them only when drone strikes end.In North and South Waziristan, more than 260,000 under fives have not been immunised since June 2012. In tribal, highly conservative parts of the country health workers are regarded with intense suspicion. Popular fears are often stoked by local religious leaders who claim the vaccines are part of a western plot to sterilise Muslims.Elsewhere in the country, monsoon floods, insecurity and a string of byelections have forced authorities to postpone a vaccination drive originally scheduled to begin on Monday.According to the global polio eradication initiative, 181 cases had been recorded worldwide this year between January and 13 August. A total of 71 were in Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan, countries where the disease is endemic.Bruce Aylward, who leads the World Health Organisation's global polio eradication campaign, pointed out that the actions of Gul Bahadur were not in line with the expressed views of the Afghan Taliban, which published a statement on its website two months ago about the importance of vaccinating children against polio (with the rider that it should be done in a manner appropriate for Muslims).Aylward said some of the reported cases were false alarms, with tests showing that children's symptoms were not caused by the polio virus. But, he added, cases were inevitable. \"This is one of the very few areas in the world that is affected by polio where there is no vaccination ongoing,\" he said. \"The endgame in stopping transmission is getting vaccination into every affected area. If we are not vaccinating, we are not eradicating.\"Experts are hopeful that vaccination may resume. A year has passed since it was suspended, making it probable that the political impact will have diminished. And while a ban can continue indefinitely while there are no polio cases, local sensitivities may change if children become sick or are harmed by the disease.Aylward pointed to conflict-hit areas such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo and northern Nigeria, where vaccination has resumed. \"In each case, with time and understanding for the consequences of their own children, it has been possible to get a dialogue,\" he said.Meanwhile, Israel has launched a mass inoculation programme, aimed at reaching more than a million under-10s over the next three months, after one of the three strains of polio was detected in the country's sewage system.No one in Israel has developed the virus since the discovery of type one in the south of the country earlier this year. It has since spread to sewage systems in the centre and the north. Type one was identified in neighbouring Egypt in December.Drops containing vaccine against types one and three of the virus are being administered orally at health clinics. Israel routinely immunises children against polio, but this campaign aims to boost the level of protection.About 182,000 children were inoculated in the first three days. A legal petition against the move, on the grounds that it was unnecessary and could be harmful, was dismissed by the high court.The last outbreak of polio in Israel was 25 years ago, and Aylward said the situation there is different to that in Pakistan. Like most countries that have eliminated polio, Israel has switched from oral drops to the inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), which is injected. The IPV prevents the virus causing illness but, if children or adults contract it, it will still travel through the gut.Israel, which has excellent surveillance systems, discovered the virus in the sewage system in February, said Aylward, but that happens in many countries using IPV. What is unusual is that it did not disappear and has since been detected in other parts of the country.The virus in the sewage is not a threat to children who have been immunised, but it is to the estimated 6% who have not been. \"So far, they have been lucky \u2013 there are no cases,\" said Aylward. Without the vaccination campaign, however, it would be surprising if cases did not occur.", "tags": ["Global development", "Polio", "Vaccines and immunisation", "Health", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan and Israel hit by polio setback"},{"date": "2013-08-20T22:16:53Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Compared with the announcement in June in which the Pakistani prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, declared his government's intention to press charges against Pervez Musharraf for treason, Tuesday's court indictment against the former military ruler for murder in connection with the assassination of Benazir Bhutto is a sideshow. Few analysts believe there is hard evidence linking Mr Musharraf to Bhutto's murder, although a UN report concluded that he failed to make serious efforts to ensure her safety. The treason charges, if they materialise, are a different matter, as the legal case that he subverted the constitution when he imposed emergency rule in late 2007 is relatively easy to make.Mr Musharraf already faces charges in four cases related to his period of rule. One way or another, it amounts to the same thing: putting a once untouchable general on trial. Pakistan's powerful military did not support his return from exile in London but they would also not want to see one of their own dragged through the courts. Much has changed in his absence. The chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, with whom Mr Musharraf feuded for most of his time in office, is about to retire. There has been an unprecedented outbreak of criticism against the chief justice, from within his own ranks, the Lahore High Bar Association, and from the politician Imran Khan. Mr Chaudhry no longer walks on water as far as many of his activist lawyers are concerned. It is likely that his replacement will not be as awkward a figure for Mr Sharif as Mr Chaudhry was to the former government.More importantly, the army, too, is about to have a new leader. In his forthcoming book, Getting Away With Murder, the man who led the UN investigation in Bhutto's assassination, Heraldo Mu\u00f1oz, describes the outgoing army chief, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, as a professional soldier of independent mind. Mr Mu\u00f1oz said that the general expressed doubts to him about the claim by his former boss Mr Musharraf that Bhutto had been assassinated by the Pakistani Taliban. He also spoke fondly of Bhutto, saying she had grown as a politician. All this further muddies the waters about who was really behind her assassination. The author himself concludes that almost everyone played a part.Mr Musharraf was ill advised to return to Pakistan, where his political support has evaporated and where he spends his time under house arrest. Even with a new army chief and chief justice, Mr Sharif will have to balance the demand to seek justice for emergency rule, with the needs of a military that remains the most powerful institution in the land. A presidential pardon for Mr Musharraf, if convicted, could be one way out. Establishing the rule of law is going to take somewhat longer.", "tags": ["Pervez Musharraf", "Benazir Bhutto", "World news", "Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan: the general is no longer untouchable | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-16T13:04:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Two people were injured earlier today when four men stepped off their motorcycles and sprayed the Express News office in Karachi with gunfire.More than 30 rounds were fired at the building. A guard and a female member of staff were taken to hospital. Their condition is not known as I write.Express News is an Urdu language TV news channel that was launched in 2008. It is owned by the Lakson Group.Express Tribune writer Maheen Sabeeh commented hours after the shooting incident on the failure of the media community to condemn the attack. She wrote: \"Nobody bothered to cover this news. Geo, ARY, Capital TV, Aaj News, Dawn News, Dunya, TV One News, CNBC Pakistan \u2013 no one cared enough to even run a ticker on this tragic event.\"And Akmal Hussain, an economics professor and social activist, wrote:\"It is a matter of grave concern that such a dastardly attack has been made against the Express News, which is in the vanguard of the struggle against bigotry, barbarism and violence to sustain democracy, rationality and humanity in Pakistan.\"He called on Pakistan's prime minister Nawaz Sharif to defend the media and democracy. Early news reports said Sharif had demanded an immediate report on the attack.Sources: Express Tribune here & here/Private emails", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Human rights"], "title": "Gunmen fire on Pakistan TV offices"},{"date": "2013-08-07T02:42:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The dizzying range of threats to stability in Pakistan were on full display on Tuesday when militants of nearly all stripes launched attacks across the country, including on the highly sensitive border with India.The strikes by religious extremists and separatists, and border clashes in the disputed region of Kashmir, came amid a state of high alert in the capital, which is bracing itself for a possible spectacular attack in the runup to the religious holiday of Eid.The latest attack, on Wednesday morning, killed 11 people and had apparently targeted a provincial government minister after he watched a late-night football match in Karachi. He was unhurt when a bomb went off near his vehicle \u2013 young boys at the game comprised many of the dead and wounded. Imtiaz Gul, a security analyst, said the recently installed government of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, was being inundated with multiple crises, in contrast to the hopes of many observers that security might improve following May's elections.\"He finds a situation in which various parts of Pakistan are on fire,\" said Gul. \"This is a multi-dimensional challenge, with both sectarian groups and political Islamists inspired by al-Qaida. They are ratcheting up violence to put the government on the defensive.\"On Monday night dozens of gunmen dressed as security forces kidnapped a group of people travelling on a bus convoy in the south-western province of Baluchistan, shooting 13 of the passengers and dumping their bodies in a nearby gorge.The Baluchistan Liberation Army, a separatist group, claimed responsibility for the attack on travellers returning home for Eid.The bus was believed to be carrying people from Punjab, the province that dominates Pakistan politically and economically, to the resentment of some ethnic groups including many in Baluchistan.Normally bus convoys in Baluchistan are afforded police protection, but officials said local security forces were dealing with a nearby attack on a fuel truck that may have been a ruse to distract the authorities.In the early hours of Tuesday morning a police senior superintendent and two army officers were killed in the mountainous northern region of Gilgit-Baltistan when gunmen attacked a small security force convoy.The area has long been wracked by Sunni sectarian terrorist groups waging a bloody campaign against members of the minority Shia community. It is the same area where a group of 10 foreign climbers were killed last month in an unusual attack on Pakistan's small foreign tourist sector.A faction of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), an umbrella group of Pakistani militant groups that pledge loyalty to the leadership of the Afghan Taliban, claimed responsibility for the attack.Muhammad Navid, a senior local policeman, said the men had been attending a security meeting in the remote town of Chilas which had been called after intelligence reports warned that \"high-profile personalities\" were likely to be targeted by militants.\"When they finished their meeting and rushed back home they were ambushed a few metres from the house of the administration official,\" Navid said.In the nearby disputed region of Kashmir, five Indian soldiers were killed by what New Delhi claimed was firing by Pakistani troops across the \"line of control\" that marks the uneasy ceasefire point between the two countries.India's defence minister, AK Antony, said India strongly condemned the attack, which he claimed was carried out by \"20 heavily armed terrorists, along with persons in Pakistani army uniform\".Firing across the line of control and raids by Pakistan-based militant groups, many of which are believed to have ties with the Pakistani army, is a longstanding problem in the disputed region.Pakistan said Indian claims that its troops were involved were \"totally baseless\".The killings represents the first major challenge to Sharif's policy of improved relations and trade with India.Gul said Sharif had to contend with powerful \"war lobbies\" in both countries that had no interest in peace. \"There is a pattern in the past where we have also seen high-profile attacks designed to undermine any significant development between the countries or any development on the way to normalisation and dialogue.\"Only last Thursday India's foreign minister vowed that New Delhi would be \"picking up the threads\" of peace talks with the new Pakistani government, and Sharif vowed to resolve \"all longstanding issues with India, including Kashmir\".A major beefing up of security in Islamabad has heightened tensions. Pakistan's security agencies have reportedly intercepted messages between TTP commanders stating their desire to attack prominent targets, which are believed to include parliament and military buildings.The city has responded by erecting a towering line of concrete blast walls near the exit of the international airport, which cars are banned from entering after dark, creating chaos on the roads outside.Muhammad Rizwan, a senior officer from the Islamabad police, said extra men had been deployed to the city's landmark Faisal mosque, market places and 10 entry points to the city. \"All law enforcement agencies are performing on high alert, in their own sphere,\" he said.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan violence puts government on defensive"},{"date": "2013-09-27T11:49:18Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The latest cover of a magazine called Newsweek Pakistan is nothing if not controversial.Under the headline \"Lady parts\", it carries a provocative image of two tampons in which one is treated as a sort of fuse that leads to an exploding bomb. The sub-deck says: \"More and more women are finding their true calling - as suicide bombers\". That is also the headline over the inside story. Many people who have come across the image online have registered their disgust on Twitter. One called it \"the single most insane magazine cover I've ever seen.\" Another asked: \"Is this even real?\"But people who have also taken the trouble to read the article have tended to be more understanding about the decision to use such an image.It explains why some women feel compelled to offer themselves as bombers, even seeking out the Taliban in order to join their ranks.The writers also explore how the Taliban goes about selecting women to take on suicide missions and the problems confronting the Pakistan authorities in trying to persuade women not to become involved.Newsweek Pakistan is published by Associated Group (AG) Publications under licence from the US publisher of Newsweek/Daily Beast. It was launched in 2010. (Newsweek in the US stopped publishing at the end of last year). Sources: Newsweek Pakistan/Buzzfeed", "tags": ["Media", "Pakistan", "Magazines", "World news", "Women", "Twitter"], "title": "Pakistan magazine's controversial cover on female suicide bombers"},{"date": "2013-09-25T14:33:52Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "More than 300 people are feared to have been killed in one of the worst earthquakes to hit Pakistan in years, and with the death toll steadily rising emergency relief efforts have been hampered by the vast distances involved, security threats from separatist rebels and minimal infrastructure in one the country's most remote regions.By Thursday morning the toll was officially at 348, Associated Press reported. A spokesman for the Baluchistan provincial government, Jan Mohammad Bulaidi, said 552 people had been injured.Twenty-four hours after a quake with a magnitude of 7.7 wrought destruction in Pakistan's impoverished Baluchistan province on Tuesday, a leading aid organisation said it could not be sure whether all the affected areas had been reached.\"This is a huge, sparsely populated province so it's clear that there are distant villages that no one has yet reached,\" said Ateeb Siddiqui, the head of operations for the Pakistan Red Crescent.The death toll jumped dramatically overnight and continued to rise during the day on Wednesday as rescue workers reached new areas. Fifteen children were killed in one madrasa alone when the religious school collapsed on top of them.Jan Muhammad Buledi, a spokesman from the Baluchistan provincial government, said more than 300,000 people had been affected in what is now believed to be the worst earthquake to hit Pakistan since 2005, when about 75,000 people were killed in the country's north.\"We are finding it very difficult to reach the affected remote areas,\" he said.Many people broke bones or even lost limbs entirely during the collapse of mud buildings which were unable to survive the powerful quake. The tremor was felt as far away as New Delhi and triggered a \"mud volcano\" off the coast of Baluchistan.Red Crescent workers from the major regional cities of Karachi and Quetta have had to travel hundreds of miles just to reach the worst affected areas in the district of Awaran, where an estimated 90% of houses have been destroyed.\"Even getting from district offices takes time because once you are off the highways the roads are really not that good,\" said Buledi.In addition to medical help the Red Crescent and other organisations are delivering tents, blankets, food and stoves to people who have lost their homes.An army spokesman in the provincial capital of Quetta said members of the Frontier Corp helping with relief work had come under attack in an area called Mashkel. No injuries were reported and he described the attack as a \"minor incident\".Baluchistan is home to an entrenched insurgency by separatist rebels who say the Pakistani state exploits the region for its natural mineral wealth but does nothing for the people of the province. A spate of bombings targeting a Shia ethnic group in the restive regional capital Quetta in January killed almost 100, injured many more and led to the sacking of the provincial government. The tension between Islamabad and the region's militant groups remains unresolved. In August, tens were killed and more than 20 kidnapped in an attack by militants dressed in security forces uniforms.On Wednesday, the Pakistani army said 1,000 troops and 200 doctors had gone to the area and \"more are being sent all the time\". A convoy of 60 army trucks left Karachi early on Wednesday, carrying supplies for those affected by the quake.The force of the quake also released jets of methane from the seabed near the port town of Gwadar, pushing up massive amounts of mud, sand and rock, forming a new island. Experts said the exceedingly rare phenomenon had happened in the area in the past and the island would erode away over time.According to the Pakistani Navy geologist Mohammed Danish, who was interviewed on national television, the island is 18 metres high, 30 metres long and 76 metres wide.\"There are stones and mud,\" he said, warning residents not to try to visit the island. \"Gasses are still emitting.\"But dozens of people had already visited the island, said the deputy commissioner of Gwadar district, Tufail Baloch, who travelled there by boat himself on Wednesday morning.Water bubbled along the edges of the island, in what appeared to be gas discharging from under the surface, Baloch said. He said the area smelled of gas that caught fire when people lit cigarettes.Dead fish floated on the water's surface while local residents were visiting the island and taking stones as souvenirs, he added.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan earthquake: hundreds feared dead in remote Baluchistan province"},{"date": "2013-10-15T11:00:56Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Huge numbers of goats, cows and even camels will be slaughtered in Pakistani on Wednesday homes to mark the Islamic holy day of Eid al-Adha.The sacrificial offering of around 6m animals will allow families to fulfil a religious duty, guarantee some much appreciated meat handouts to the poor and provide nearly half of the annual requirement of the country's leather industry.It will also generate an extraordinary cash windfall for some of Pakistan's most dangerous militant groups.Thinly disguised front organisations have been gearing up to compete against each other and legitimate charities to collect as many animal skins as possible, which can then be sold on for cash.\"For us it is second only to Ramadan for our income,\" says an official from the Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation (FIF).FIF is the charitable wing of Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), itself the reincarnation of one of south Asia's most dangerous militant groups, the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a banned organisation dedicated to fighting jihad against India.JuD has successfully fought off legal bans although many believe it remains deeply involved in militancy.The US government has offered $10m (\u00a36m) for information leading to the arrest of Hafiz Saeed, the group's leader accused by some US officials of masterminding and overseeing the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks.Saeed moves around the country freely. On Monday, he held a press conference outside a mosque in an affluent district of Islamabad.Surrounded by piles of food, toys and other goods that he said would be given to victims of last month's earthquake in Baluchistan, he appealed for people to give their animal hides to JuD.\"Whatever funds we get from hides of animals we will use in Baluchistan to rebuild houses and help the people,\" he said to a bank of almost 20 television cameras.The organisation hopes to collect 100,000 hides from around the country this year. A cow hide can fetch up to $50.Also available to buy are JuD livestock which the organisation provides and slaughters on behalf of individuals or groups who want to pool resources to share the cost.Such initiatives have helped the organisation take market share from other charities, including the Edhi Foundation, a much-respected social welfare group.\"It's hard to complete because they have more manpower from all their religious seminaries,\" said Mohammad Rashid from the Edhi Foundation in Islamabad. \"They send all their students out to the streets, to volunteer.\"Because JuD is not officially a banned organisation nothing will or can be done to stop it collecting hides.There are fears that very little will be done to stop illegal groups from collecting hides either, particularly as many of them operate under false names.Officials say around half of the 24 groups that applied for the right to set up street stalls to collect hides in Islamabad were rejected after they were investigated and found to be front organisations.In recent weeks newspapers have carried government advert warning people not to give hides to illegal groups. However, a thorough crackdown is unlikely.Muhammad Rizwan, the senior superintendent of police in Islamabad, said the issue was not as critical to public safety as preventing suicide bombers from getting into mosques or other large gatherings that will occur across the country in the coming days.\"Our focus has to be on security because we have 685 mosques in the city alone and many huge gatherings. All our resources will be focused onto that.\"While most people will give their hides to local mosques or respectable charities, some deliberately give to militants.\"Definitely why shouldn't I give to jihadi organisations,\" said Syed Sabir Hussain, a small business owner from Rawalpindi. \"What is wrong if they are fighting for Allah and Muslims?\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Eid al-Adha", "World news"], "title": "Eid animal slaughter funds Pakistan terror groups"},{"date": "2013-10-15T11:00:56Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Huge numbers of goats, cows and even camels will be slaughtered in Pakistani on Wednesday homes to mark the Islamic holy day of Eid al-Adha.The sacrificial offering of around 6m animals will allow families to fulfil a religious duty, guarantee some much appreciated meat handouts to the poor and provide nearly half of the annual requirement of the country's leather industry.It will also generate an extraordinary cash windfall for some of Pakistan's most dangerous militant groups.Thinly disguised front organisations have been gearing up to compete against each other and legitimate charities to collect as many animal skins as possible, which can then be sold on for cash.\"For us it is second only to Ramadan for our income,\" says an official from the Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation (FIF).FIF is the charitable wing of Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), itself the reincarnation of one of south Asia's most dangerous militant groups, the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a banned organisation dedicated to fighting jihad against India.JuD has successfully fought off legal bans although many believe it remains deeply involved in militancy.The US government has offered $10m (\u00a36m) for information leading to the arrest of Hafiz Saeed, the group's leader accused by some US officials of masterminding and overseeing the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks.Saeed moves around the country freely. On Monday, he held a press conference outside a mosque in an affluent district of Islamabad.Surrounded by piles of food, toys and other goods that he said would be given to victims of last month's earthquake in Baluchistan, he appealed for people to give their animal hides to JuD.\"Whatever funds we get from hides of animals we will use in Baluchistan to rebuild houses and help the people,\" he said to a bank of almost 20 television cameras.The organisation hopes to collect 100,000 hides from around the country this year. A cow hide can fetch up to $50.Also available to buy are JuD livestock which the organisation provides and slaughters on behalf of individuals or groups who want to pool resources to share the cost.Such initiatives have helped the organisation take market share from other charities, including the Edhi Foundation, a much-respected social welfare group.\"It's hard to complete because they have more manpower from all their religious seminaries,\" said Mohammad Rashid from the Edhi Foundation in Islamabad. \"They send all their students out to the streets, to volunteer.\"Because JuD is not officially a banned organisation nothing will or can be done to stop it collecting hides.There are fears that very little will be done to stop illegal groups from collecting hides either, particularly as many of them operate under false names.Officials say around half of the 24 groups that applied for the right to set up street stalls to collect hides in Islamabad were rejected after they were investigated and found to be front organisations.In recent weeks newspapers have carried government advert warning people not to give hides to illegal groups. However, a thorough crackdown is unlikely.Muhammad Rizwan, the senior superintendent of police in Islamabad, said the issue was not as critical to public safety as preventing suicide bombers from getting into mosques or other large gatherings that will occur across the country in the coming days.\"Our focus has to be on security because we have 685 mosques in the city alone and many huge gatherings. All our resources will be focused onto that.\"While most people will give their hides to local mosques or respectable charities, some deliberately give to militants.\"Definitely why shouldn't I give to jihadi organisations,\" said Syed Sabir Hussain, a small business owner from Rawalpindi. \"What is wrong if they are fighting for Allah and Muslims?\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Eid al-Adha", "World news"], "title": "Eid animal slaughter funds Pakistan terror groups"},{"date": "2013-12-26T17:31:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Al-Qaida kidnappers in Pakistan have released a video of a captured American consultant, looking frail and appealing for help from Barack Obama.Warren Weinstein, 72, was seized two years ago while advising the Pakistani government on economic development and his captors have said they would only release him if the US stops all air strikes and releases terrorist suspects around the world.Within hours of the film's release, Pakistani intelligence officials said a suspected American drone had fired two missiles at a home in the northwestern tribal region bordering Afghanistan, killing at least three foreign militants.It was unclear which came first however. Associated Press reported the latest drone strike took place just before midnight Wednesday in the village of Qutab Khel in North Waziristan and was successfully targeted at Arab militants operating in the area.The video of Weinstein was released to Pakistani reporters on Christmas Day but first appeared in US media on Thursday.\"The years have taken their toll,\" Weinstein says in the 13-minute video, which describes how he is not in good health and suffers from acute asthma.Appearing to read from a statement, he adds: \"Nine years ago, I came to Pakistan to help my government and I did so at a time when most Americans would not come here,\" he said. \"And now, when I need my government, it seems I have been totally abandoned and forgotten.\"The former New York state university professor also appears to make a direct appeal to the US president.\"Mr Obama, you're a family man,\" Weinstein is seen to say. \"You understand the deep mental anxiety and anguish that I have been experiencing for these past more than two years. And therefore I'm appealing to you on a humanitarian basis, if nothing else, and asking that you take the necessary actions to expedite my release and my return to my family and to my country.\"The video is the third apparently released by his captors since Weinstein was taken on August 13, 2011 from his home in Lahore.The US state department in Washington said it was still trying to verify the video and a separate letter purporting to be from Weinstein, but repeated its demands for his immediate and unconditional release.\u201cWe're working hard to authenticate this latest report, but we reiterate our call that Warren Weinstein be released and returned to his family,\u201d said spokeswoman Jen Psaki. \u201cParticularly during this holiday season \u2013 another one away from his family \u2013 our hopes and prayers are with him and those who love and miss him.\"Weinstein, who has a home in Maryland, was country director in Pakistan for JE Austin Associates, a US-based firm that advises Pakistani businesses and government departments.Earlier videos released in September 2012 showed Weinstein appealing for help from the Jewish community and Israel's prime minister.", "tags": ["US news", "Pakistan", "Obama administration", "Al-Qaida", "World news"], "title": "American citizen abducted in Pakistan appeals to US for help"},{"date": "2013-10-15T11:00:56Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Huge numbers of goats, cows and even camels will be slaughtered in Pakistani on Wednesday homes to mark the Islamic holy day of Eid al-Adha.The sacrificial offering of around 6m animals will allow families to fulfil a religious duty, guarantee some much appreciated meat handouts to the poor and provide nearly half of the annual requirement of the country's leather industry.It will also generate an extraordinary cash windfall for some of Pakistan's most dangerous militant groups.Thinly disguised front organisations have been gearing up to compete against each other and legitimate charities to collect as many animal skins as possible, which can then be sold on for cash.\"For us it is second only to Ramadan for our income,\" says an official from the Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation (FIF).FIF is the charitable wing of Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), itself the reincarnation of one of south Asia's most dangerous militant groups, the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a banned organisation dedicated to fighting jihad against India.JuD has successfully fought off legal bans although many believe it remains deeply involved in militancy.The US government has offered $10m (\u00a36m) for information leading to the arrest of Hafiz Saeed, the group's leader accused by some US officials of masterminding and overseeing the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks.Saeed moves around the country freely. On Monday, he held a press conference outside a mosque in an affluent district of Islamabad.Surrounded by piles of food, toys and other goods that he said would be given to victims of last month's earthquake in Baluchistan, he appealed for people to give their animal hides to JuD.\"Whatever funds we get from hides of animals we will use in Baluchistan to rebuild houses and help the people,\" he said to a bank of almost 20 television cameras.The organisation hopes to collect 100,000 hides from around the country this year. A cow hide can fetch up to $50.Also available to buy are JuD livestock which the organisation provides and slaughters on behalf of individuals or groups who want to pool resources to share the cost.Such initiatives have helped the organisation take market share from other charities, including the Edhi Foundation, a much-respected social welfare group.\"It's hard to complete because they have more manpower from all their religious seminaries,\" said Mohammad Rashid from the Edhi Foundation in Islamabad. \"They send all their students out to the streets, to volunteer.\"Because JuD is not officially a banned organisation nothing will or can be done to stop it collecting hides.There are fears that very little will be done to stop illegal groups from collecting hides either, particularly as many of them operate under false names.Officials say around half of the 24 groups that applied for the right to set up street stalls to collect hides in Islamabad were rejected after they were investigated and found to be front organisations.In recent weeks newspapers have carried government advert warning people not to give hides to illegal groups. However, a thorough crackdown is unlikely.Muhammad Rizwan, the senior superintendent of police in Islamabad, said the issue was not as critical to public safety as preventing suicide bombers from getting into mosques or other large gatherings that will occur across the country in the coming days.\"Our focus has to be on security because we have 685 mosques in the city alone and many huge gatherings. All our resources will be focused onto that.\"While most people will give their hides to local mosques or respectable charities, some deliberately give to militants.\"Definitely why shouldn't I give to jihadi organisations,\" said Syed Sabir Hussain, a small business owner from Rawalpindi. \"What is wrong if they are fighting for Allah and Muslims?\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Eid al-Adha", "World news"], "title": "Eid animal slaughter funds Pakistan terror groups"},{"date": "2013-12-26T17:31:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Al-Qaida kidnappers in Pakistan have released a video of a captured American consultant, looking frail and appealing for help from Barack Obama.Warren Weinstein, 72, was seized two years ago while advising the Pakistani government on economic development and his captors have said they would only release him if the US stops all air strikes and releases terrorist suspects around the world.Within hours of the film's release, Pakistani intelligence officials said a suspected American drone had fired two missiles at a home in the northwestern tribal region bordering Afghanistan, killing at least three foreign militants.It was unclear which came first however. Associated Press reported the latest drone strike took place just before midnight Wednesday in the village of Qutab Khel in North Waziristan and was successfully targeted at Arab militants operating in the area.The video of Weinstein was released to Pakistani reporters on Christmas Day but first appeared in US media on Thursday.\"The years have taken their toll,\" Weinstein says in the 13-minute video, which describes how he is not in good health and suffers from acute asthma.Appearing to read from a statement, he adds: \"Nine years ago, I came to Pakistan to help my government and I did so at a time when most Americans would not come here,\" he said. \"And now, when I need my government, it seems I have been totally abandoned and forgotten.\"The former New York state university professor also appears to make a direct appeal to the US president.\"Mr Obama, you're a family man,\" Weinstein is seen to say. \"You understand the deep mental anxiety and anguish that I have been experiencing for these past more than two years. And therefore I'm appealing to you on a humanitarian basis, if nothing else, and asking that you take the necessary actions to expedite my release and my return to my family and to my country.\"The video is the third apparently released by his captors since Weinstein was taken on August 13, 2011 from his home in Lahore.The US state department in Washington said it was still trying to verify the video and a separate letter purporting to be from Weinstein, but repeated its demands for his immediate and unconditional release.\u201cWe're working hard to authenticate this latest report, but we reiterate our call that Warren Weinstein be released and returned to his family,\u201d said spokeswoman Jen Psaki. \u201cParticularly during this holiday season \u2013 another one away from his family \u2013 our hopes and prayers are with him and those who love and miss him.\"Weinstein, who has a home in Maryland, was country director in Pakistan for JE Austin Associates, a US-based firm that advises Pakistani businesses and government departments.Earlier videos released in September 2012 showed Weinstein appealing for help from the Jewish community and Israel's prime minister.", "tags": ["US news", "Pakistan", "Obama administration", "Al-Qaida", "World news"], "title": "American citizen abducted in Pakistan appeals to US for help"},{"date": "2013-12-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Just four months after taking power, new leaders in Iran have begun a highly promising effort to pull their country out of its isolation and, perhaps, transform it into a stabilizing rather than a destabilizing force. There is little prospect that Saudi Arabia or Israel, which also feed regional tensions, will follow suit. Yet some dare to hope that Pakistan might.The Middle East and surrounding regions are in a period of historic flux. Iran's new policies, upheaval in Egypt, horrific warfare in Syria, state collapse in Libya, and intensifying terror in Iraq reflect the collapse of old structures. One of those structures, in place for more than half a century, has been a Pakistan that falls steadily deeper into poverty while spending huge amounts on weaponry, fomenting terror in neighboring countries, and deepening its self-destructive obsession with imagined security threats.Pakistan stands at an intriguing crossroads. A new prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, took office in June. General Pervez Ashfaq Kayani, the army chief of staff who nourished Pakistan's ties with Islamic militants, has just retired. The mercurial chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, will retire this week. Meanwhile, Pakistanis are expressing increasing disgust with their political system. In several parts of the country they have taken to the streets to protest murderous attacks by militants who count on clandestine support from within the government.Pakistan is not about to crack down on terror groups or cut its military budget in order to build roads, schools and hospitals. Yet one prominent Pakistani, in a new book and a series of speeches, is urging it to do just that. He is offering a stark alternative to policies that threaten to turn Pakistan into what he calls \"a nuclear-armed Somalia\".Most Pakistani politics is conducted within a narrow spectrum. Politicians spend much time debating the best ways to fight India, or take Kashmir, or dominate Afghanistan, or punish the United States for its real and imagined sins. Now comes a voice arguing that these debates are meaningless in a country that cannot care for its own citizens and is fast becoming a pariah state.It is the voice of Husain Haqqani, a wily veteran of Pakistani politics who served as his country's ambassador to the United States from 2008 to 2011. During those years, Pakistani-American relations were fraught with tension and mistrust. Haqqani had to deal with fallout from the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden, and with the arrest of a CIA contractor, Raymond Davis, for the murder of two Pakistanis. His diplomatic skill and dense web of contacts in Washington helped contain these crises and maintain a semblance of partnership in the increasingly poisoned US-Pakistan relationship.Now Haqqani has published a book exploring the roots of this relationship and explaining how it became so toxic. Its arresting title is Magnificent Delusions: Pakistan, the United States, and an Epic History of Misunderstanding. As a trenchant and unsparing account of how these two countries came to mistrust each other so deeply, despite pretending to be friends, this book is unmatched. Its implicit message \u2013 the need to remake Pakistan \u2013 is even more provocative.Haqqani has been travelling around the United States, where he now lives, preaching this message. Officially he is on a book tour, but it feels like something more. Haqqani is laying out a radically different path for his homeland. His campaign is important not only to Pakistanis, but to all who are terrified by threats to global security posed by what Liam Fox, a former United Kingdom defense secretary, recently called \"the most dangerous country in the world\".In his speeches, Haqqani begins by rattling off statistics \u2013 43% of Pakistani children do not attend school \u2013 and recounting episodes that reflect the barbarism into which his country has fallen, like the murder of health workers giving polio vaccines. Then he describes Pakistan's role in training Islamic militants who have wreaked havoc in Afghanistan, India, and within Pakistan itself. His critique of obtuse and delusional American policies toward Pakistan \u2013 he blames the US for helping to undermine Pakistani democracy \u2013 is devastating.He told students at Brown University's Watson Institute for International Studies on Tuesday: The United States has to find some other way to deal with Muslims besides either killing them or taking them out to lunch.Haqqani concludes with his prescription for Pakistan: it sounds like common sense to many outsiders, but in Pakistan it is nothing short of revolutionary. To begin with, Haqqani wants his country to stop supporting militant armies and terror groups. He urges a reversal of attitudes toward India, which he sees not as a threatening enemy but as a potential partner. Domestically, he wants the government to redefine the meaning of security away from military prowess and toward the development of a modern society.He said in his Watson Institute speech: We are a warrior state, and we need to become a trading state.This message finds applause in the United States, and \"Magnificent Delusions\" has been well received in India. Remarkably, reviews in Pakistan have also been favorable. Haqqani has succeeded in widening the bounds of political discourse in his homeland. No Pakistani politician, however, is yet ready to campaign for high office on such a radical platform.In his book and speeches, Haqqani does not mention the possibility that he might do so himself. He is well known in Pakistan; may have as many friends there as enemies; is a Sunni married to a Shia woman from a prominent family; and has both a communal and regional base. Whether such an erudite cosmopolitan would be comfortable crisscrossing his country in an armored car, or campaigning while wearing a bulletproof vest, is far from clear. Even if Haqqani is not ready to return and preach his urgent message in Pakistan, however, Pakistanis need to hear it. If they do not, worse times lie ahead for them and their neighbors.\u2022 An earlier version of this article mistakenly referred to Nawaz Sharif as president of Pakistan. He is prime minister.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy", "India"], "title": "Pakistan needs to heed Husain Haqqani's urgent message of reform | Stephen Kinzer"},{"date": "2013-10-15T11:00:56Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Huge numbers of goats, cows and even camels will be slaughtered in Pakistani on Wednesday homes to mark the Islamic holy day of Eid al-Adha.The sacrificial offering of around 6m animals will allow families to fulfil a religious duty, guarantee some much appreciated meat handouts to the poor and provide nearly half of the annual requirement of the country's leather industry.It will also generate an extraordinary cash windfall for some of Pakistan's most dangerous militant groups.Thinly disguised front organisations have been gearing up to compete against each other and legitimate charities to collect as many animal skins as possible, which can then be sold on for cash.\"For us it is second only to Ramadan for our income,\" says an official from the Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation (FIF).FIF is the charitable wing of Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), itself the reincarnation of one of south Asia's most dangerous militant groups, the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a banned organisation dedicated to fighting jihad against India.JuD has successfully fought off legal bans although many believe it remains deeply involved in militancy.The US government has offered $10m (\u00a36m) for information leading to the arrest of Hafiz Saeed, the group's leader accused by some US officials of masterminding and overseeing the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks.Saeed moves around the country freely. On Monday, he held a press conference outside a mosque in an affluent district of Islamabad.Surrounded by piles of food, toys and other goods that he said would be given to victims of last month's earthquake in Baluchistan, he appealed for people to give their animal hides to JuD.\"Whatever funds we get from hides of animals we will use in Baluchistan to rebuild houses and help the people,\" he said to a bank of almost 20 television cameras.The organisation hopes to collect 100,000 hides from around the country this year. A cow hide can fetch up to $50.Also available to buy are JuD livestock which the organisation provides and slaughters on behalf of individuals or groups who want to pool resources to share the cost.Such initiatives have helped the organisation take market share from other charities, including the Edhi Foundation, a much-respected social welfare group.\"It's hard to complete because they have more manpower from all their religious seminaries,\" said Mohammad Rashid from the Edhi Foundation in Islamabad. \"They send all their students out to the streets, to volunteer.\"Because JuD is not officially a banned organisation nothing will or can be done to stop it collecting hides.There are fears that very little will be done to stop illegal groups from collecting hides either, particularly as many of them operate under false names.Officials say around half of the 24 groups that applied for the right to set up street stalls to collect hides in Islamabad were rejected after they were investigated and found to be front organisations.In recent weeks newspapers have carried government advert warning people not to give hides to illegal groups. However, a thorough crackdown is unlikely.Muhammad Rizwan, the senior superintendent of police in Islamabad, said the issue was not as critical to public safety as preventing suicide bombers from getting into mosques or other large gatherings that will occur across the country in the coming days.\"Our focus has to be on security because we have 685 mosques in the city alone and many huge gatherings. All our resources will be focused onto that.\"While most people will give their hides to local mosques or respectable charities, some deliberately give to militants.\"Definitely why shouldn't I give to jihadi organisations,\" said Syed Sabir Hussain, a small business owner from Rawalpindi. \"What is wrong if they are fighting for Allah and Muslims?\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Eid al-Adha", "World news"], "title": "Eid animal slaughter funds Pakistan terror groups"},{"date": "2013-12-26T17:31:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Al-Qaida kidnappers in Pakistan have released a video of a captured American consultant, looking frail and appealing for help from Barack Obama.Warren Weinstein, 72, was seized two years ago while advising the Pakistani government on economic development and his captors have said they would only release him if the US stops all air strikes and releases terrorist suspects around the world.Within hours of the film's release, Pakistani intelligence officials said a suspected American drone had fired two missiles at a home in the northwestern tribal region bordering Afghanistan, killing at least three foreign militants.It was unclear which came first however. Associated Press reported the latest drone strike took place just before midnight Wednesday in the village of Qutab Khel in North Waziristan and was successfully targeted at Arab militants operating in the area.The video of Weinstein was released to Pakistani reporters on Christmas Day but first appeared in US media on Thursday.\"The years have taken their toll,\" Weinstein says in the 13-minute video, which describes how he is not in good health and suffers from acute asthma.Appearing to read from a statement, he adds: \"Nine years ago, I came to Pakistan to help my government and I did so at a time when most Americans would not come here,\" he said. \"And now, when I need my government, it seems I have been totally abandoned and forgotten.\"The former New York state university professor also appears to make a direct appeal to the US president.\"Mr Obama, you're a family man,\" Weinstein is seen to say. \"You understand the deep mental anxiety and anguish that I have been experiencing for these past more than two years. And therefore I'm appealing to you on a humanitarian basis, if nothing else, and asking that you take the necessary actions to expedite my release and my return to my family and to my country.\"The video is the third apparently released by his captors since Weinstein was taken on August 13, 2011 from his home in Lahore.The US state department in Washington said it was still trying to verify the video and a separate letter purporting to be from Weinstein, but repeated its demands for his immediate and unconditional release.\u201cWe're working hard to authenticate this latest report, but we reiterate our call that Warren Weinstein be released and returned to his family,\u201d said spokeswoman Jen Psaki. \u201cParticularly during this holiday season \u2013 another one away from his family \u2013 our hopes and prayers are with him and those who love and miss him.\"Weinstein, who has a home in Maryland, was country director in Pakistan for JE Austin Associates, a US-based firm that advises Pakistani businesses and government departments.Earlier videos released in September 2012 showed Weinstein appealing for help from the Jewish community and Israel's prime minister.", "tags": ["US news", "Pakistan", "Obama administration", "Al-Qaida", "World news"], "title": "American citizen abducted in Pakistan appeals to US for help"},{"date": "2013-12-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Just four months after taking power, new leaders in Iran have begun a highly promising effort to pull their country out of its isolation and, perhaps, transform it into a stabilizing rather than a destabilizing force. There is little prospect that Saudi Arabia or Israel, which also feed regional tensions, will follow suit. Yet some dare to hope that Pakistan might.The Middle East and surrounding regions are in a period of historic flux. Iran's new policies, upheaval in Egypt, horrific warfare in Syria, state collapse in Libya, and intensifying terror in Iraq reflect the collapse of old structures. One of those structures, in place for more than half a century, has been a Pakistan that falls steadily deeper into poverty while spending huge amounts on weaponry, fomenting terror in neighboring countries, and deepening its self-destructive obsession with imagined security threats.Pakistan stands at an intriguing crossroads. A new prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, took office in June. General Pervez Ashfaq Kayani, the army chief of staff who nourished Pakistan's ties with Islamic militants, has just retired. The mercurial chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, will retire this week. Meanwhile, Pakistanis are expressing increasing disgust with their political system. In several parts of the country they have taken to the streets to protest murderous attacks by militants who count on clandestine support from within the government.Pakistan is not about to crack down on terror groups or cut its military budget in order to build roads, schools and hospitals. Yet one prominent Pakistani, in a new book and a series of speeches, is urging it to do just that. He is offering a stark alternative to policies that threaten to turn Pakistan into what he calls \"a nuclear-armed Somalia\".Most Pakistani politics is conducted within a narrow spectrum. Politicians spend much time debating the best ways to fight India, or take Kashmir, or dominate Afghanistan, or punish the United States for its real and imagined sins. Now comes a voice arguing that these debates are meaningless in a country that cannot care for its own citizens and is fast becoming a pariah state.It is the voice of Husain Haqqani, a wily veteran of Pakistani politics who served as his country's ambassador to the United States from 2008 to 2011. During those years, Pakistani-American relations were fraught with tension and mistrust. Haqqani had to deal with fallout from the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden, and with the arrest of a CIA contractor, Raymond Davis, for the murder of two Pakistanis. His diplomatic skill and dense web of contacts in Washington helped contain these crises and maintain a semblance of partnership in the increasingly poisoned US-Pakistan relationship.Now Haqqani has published a book exploring the roots of this relationship and explaining how it became so toxic. Its arresting title is Magnificent Delusions: Pakistan, the United States, and an Epic History of Misunderstanding. As a trenchant and unsparing account of how these two countries came to mistrust each other so deeply, despite pretending to be friends, this book is unmatched. Its implicit message \u2013 the need to remake Pakistan \u2013 is even more provocative.Haqqani has been travelling around the United States, where he now lives, preaching this message. Officially he is on a book tour, but it feels like something more. Haqqani is laying out a radically different path for his homeland. His campaign is important not only to Pakistanis, but to all who are terrified by threats to global security posed by what Liam Fox, a former United Kingdom defense secretary, recently called \"the most dangerous country in the world\".In his speeches, Haqqani begins by rattling off statistics \u2013 43% of Pakistani children do not attend school \u2013 and recounting episodes that reflect the barbarism into which his country has fallen, like the murder of health workers giving polio vaccines. Then he describes Pakistan's role in training Islamic militants who have wreaked havoc in Afghanistan, India, and within Pakistan itself. His critique of obtuse and delusional American policies toward Pakistan \u2013 he blames the US for helping to undermine Pakistani democracy \u2013 is devastating.He told students at Brown University's Watson Institute for International Studies on Tuesday: The United States has to find some other way to deal with Muslims besides either killing them or taking them out to lunch.Haqqani concludes with his prescription for Pakistan: it sounds like common sense to many outsiders, but in Pakistan it is nothing short of revolutionary. To begin with, Haqqani wants his country to stop supporting militant armies and terror groups. He urges a reversal of attitudes toward India, which he sees not as a threatening enemy but as a potential partner. Domestically, he wants the government to redefine the meaning of security away from military prowess and toward the development of a modern society.He said in his Watson Institute speech: We are a warrior state, and we need to become a trading state.This message finds applause in the United States, and \"Magnificent Delusions\" has been well received in India. Remarkably, reviews in Pakistan have also been favorable. Haqqani has succeeded in widening the bounds of political discourse in his homeland. No Pakistani politician, however, is yet ready to campaign for high office on such a radical platform.In his book and speeches, Haqqani does not mention the possibility that he might do so himself. He is well known in Pakistan; may have as many friends there as enemies; is a Sunni married to a Shia woman from a prominent family; and has both a communal and regional base. Whether such an erudite cosmopolitan would be comfortable crisscrossing his country in an armored car, or campaigning while wearing a bulletproof vest, is far from clear. Even if Haqqani is not ready to return and preach his urgent message in Pakistan, however, Pakistanis need to hear it. If they do not, worse times lie ahead for them and their neighbors.\u2022 An earlier version of this article mistakenly referred to Nawaz Sharif as president of Pakistan. He is prime minister.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy", "India"], "title": "Pakistan needs to heed Husain Haqqani's urgent message of reform | Stephen Kinzer"},{"date": "2013-12-08T00:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The author Fatima Bhutto has had a lifetime of being asked about her surname. She comes from the \"cursed\" political dynasty in Pakistan: her grandfather, the former president Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was executed in 1979, three years before Fatima was born; her father, the radical politician Murtaza Bhutto, was shot dead by police in 1996; and her aunt, the former prime minister Benazir Bhutto, was killed in a bombing in 2007.Not surprisingly, Fatima has no desire to enter the political arena. \"No,\" she says, \"I always wanted to be a writer. I was very lucky to have a father who was a feminist and as a child I was always told I could do what I wanted to do and I loved to write. I'm doing my dream job! There's no way I'd surrender it.\"At 31, Bhutto has just published her first novel. The Shadow of the Crescent Moon is set over the course of one morning in a small town in Pakistan's tribal regions, close to the border with Afghanistan. It follows the story of three brothers who are forced to make difficult choices against a backdrop of continuous war. But the heart of the novel, for Bhutto, lies in the female characters.\"In my mind, it was this story of three brothers and then these women took over, just like Pakistani women do,\" she laughs. \"There is such a singular view of Pakistani women and it's such a shallow and very unfair view. There's an impression of how differently we do things, how downtrodden we are. Millions of women suffer but they [also] struggle, they resist and fight. It's a harsh country, an unfair country, but it also produces women with extraordinary spirit.\"In fact, it produces women such as Bhutto herself, who lost her father when she was 14. She was convinced that her aunt, who had fallen out with Murtaza and was prime minister at the time, was responsible. Bhutto wrote about Pakistani state-sanctioned violence in her memoir, Songs of Blood and Sword, which was published in 2010 and became a bestseller in her home country.When I ask how she feels about her aunt's legacy now, she politely declines to expand. \"The nice thing about doing fiction is that I don't feel I have to answer all these heavy political questions.\"Could Benazir have done more to empower ordinary women when she was in power? \"The only safety that women have in this country is with each other,\" Bhutto replies. \"They've never had it from power.\"At one point in her novel, Bhutto writes of a character feeling trapped by \"the ghosts of history\". Does she feel the same? \"I don't think it's just me,\" she says. \"This is a very young country \u2013 only 67 years old. With any country negotiating the future against a very turbulent past, you can't escape your heritage. Those ghosts of history are everywhere.\"", "tags": ["Fiction", "Benazir Bhutto", "Pakistan", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Fatima Bhutto: 'Pakistan produces women with extraordinary spirit'"},{"date": "2013-10-15T11:00:56Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Huge numbers of goats, cows and even camels will be slaughtered in Pakistani on Wednesday homes to mark the Islamic holy day of Eid al-Adha.The sacrificial offering of around 6m animals will allow families to fulfil a religious duty, guarantee some much appreciated meat handouts to the poor and provide nearly half of the annual requirement of the country's leather industry.It will also generate an extraordinary cash windfall for some of Pakistan's most dangerous militant groups.Thinly disguised front organisations have been gearing up to compete against each other and legitimate charities to collect as many animal skins as possible, which can then be sold on for cash.\"For us it is second only to Ramadan for our income,\" says an official from the Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation (FIF).FIF is the charitable wing of Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), itself the reincarnation of one of south Asia's most dangerous militant groups, the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a banned organisation dedicated to fighting jihad against India.JuD has successfully fought off legal bans although many believe it remains deeply involved in militancy.The US government has offered $10m (\u00a36m) for information leading to the arrest of Hafiz Saeed, the group's leader accused by some US officials of masterminding and overseeing the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks.Saeed moves around the country freely. On Monday, he held a press conference outside a mosque in an affluent district of Islamabad.Surrounded by piles of food, toys and other goods that he said would be given to victims of last month's earthquake in Baluchistan, he appealed for people to give their animal hides to JuD.\"Whatever funds we get from hides of animals we will use in Baluchistan to rebuild houses and help the people,\" he said to a bank of almost 20 television cameras.The organisation hopes to collect 100,000 hides from around the country this year. A cow hide can fetch up to $50.Also available to buy are JuD livestock which the organisation provides and slaughters on behalf of individuals or groups who want to pool resources to share the cost.Such initiatives have helped the organisation take market share from other charities, including the Edhi Foundation, a much-respected social welfare group.\"It's hard to complete because they have more manpower from all their religious seminaries,\" said Mohammad Rashid from the Edhi Foundation in Islamabad. \"They send all their students out to the streets, to volunteer.\"Because JuD is not officially a banned organisation nothing will or can be done to stop it collecting hides.There are fears that very little will be done to stop illegal groups from collecting hides either, particularly as many of them operate under false names.Officials say around half of the 24 groups that applied for the right to set up street stalls to collect hides in Islamabad were rejected after they were investigated and found to be front organisations.In recent weeks newspapers have carried government advert warning people not to give hides to illegal groups. However, a thorough crackdown is unlikely.Muhammad Rizwan, the senior superintendent of police in Islamabad, said the issue was not as critical to public safety as preventing suicide bombers from getting into mosques or other large gatherings that will occur across the country in the coming days.\"Our focus has to be on security because we have 685 mosques in the city alone and many huge gatherings. All our resources will be focused onto that.\"While most people will give their hides to local mosques or respectable charities, some deliberately give to militants.\"Definitely why shouldn't I give to jihadi organisations,\" said Syed Sabir Hussain, a small business owner from Rawalpindi. \"What is wrong if they are fighting for Allah and Muslims?\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Eid al-Adha", "World news"], "title": "Eid animal slaughter funds Pakistan terror groups"},{"date": "2013-12-26T17:31:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Al-Qaida kidnappers in Pakistan have released a video of a captured American consultant, looking frail and appealing for help from Barack Obama.Warren Weinstein, 72, was seized two years ago while advising the Pakistani government on economic development and his captors have said they would only release him if the US stops all air strikes and releases terrorist suspects around the world.Within hours of the film's release, Pakistani intelligence officials said a suspected American drone had fired two missiles at a home in the northwestern tribal region bordering Afghanistan, killing at least three foreign militants.It was unclear which came first however. Associated Press reported the latest drone strike took place just before midnight Wednesday in the village of Qutab Khel in North Waziristan and was successfully targeted at Arab militants operating in the area.The video of Weinstein was released to Pakistani reporters on Christmas Day but first appeared in US media on Thursday.\"The years have taken their toll,\" Weinstein says in the 13-minute video, which describes how he is not in good health and suffers from acute asthma.Appearing to read from a statement, he adds: \"Nine years ago, I came to Pakistan to help my government and I did so at a time when most Americans would not come here,\" he said. \"And now, when I need my government, it seems I have been totally abandoned and forgotten.\"The former New York state university professor also appears to make a direct appeal to the US president.\"Mr Obama, you're a family man,\" Weinstein is seen to say. \"You understand the deep mental anxiety and anguish that I have been experiencing for these past more than two years. And therefore I'm appealing to you on a humanitarian basis, if nothing else, and asking that you take the necessary actions to expedite my release and my return to my family and to my country.\"The video is the third apparently released by his captors since Weinstein was taken on August 13, 2011 from his home in Lahore.The US state department in Washington said it was still trying to verify the video and a separate letter purporting to be from Weinstein, but repeated its demands for his immediate and unconditional release.\u201cWe're working hard to authenticate this latest report, but we reiterate our call that Warren Weinstein be released and returned to his family,\u201d said spokeswoman Jen Psaki. \u201cParticularly during this holiday season \u2013 another one away from his family \u2013 our hopes and prayers are with him and those who love and miss him.\"Weinstein, who has a home in Maryland, was country director in Pakistan for JE Austin Associates, a US-based firm that advises Pakistani businesses and government departments.Earlier videos released in September 2012 showed Weinstein appealing for help from the Jewish community and Israel's prime minister.", "tags": ["US news", "Pakistan", "Obama administration", "Al-Qaida", "World news"], "title": "American citizen abducted in Pakistan appeals to US for help"},{"date": "2013-12-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Just four months after taking power, new leaders in Iran have begun a highly promising effort to pull their country out of its isolation and, perhaps, transform it into a stabilizing rather than a destabilizing force. There is little prospect that Saudi Arabia or Israel, which also feed regional tensions, will follow suit. Yet some dare to hope that Pakistan might.The Middle East and surrounding regions are in a period of historic flux. Iran's new policies, upheaval in Egypt, horrific warfare in Syria, state collapse in Libya, and intensifying terror in Iraq reflect the collapse of old structures. One of those structures, in place for more than half a century, has been a Pakistan that falls steadily deeper into poverty while spending huge amounts on weaponry, fomenting terror in neighboring countries, and deepening its self-destructive obsession with imagined security threats.Pakistan stands at an intriguing crossroads. A new prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, took office in June. General Pervez Ashfaq Kayani, the army chief of staff who nourished Pakistan's ties with Islamic militants, has just retired. The mercurial chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, will retire this week. Meanwhile, Pakistanis are expressing increasing disgust with their political system. In several parts of the country they have taken to the streets to protest murderous attacks by militants who count on clandestine support from within the government.Pakistan is not about to crack down on terror groups or cut its military budget in order to build roads, schools and hospitals. Yet one prominent Pakistani, in a new book and a series of speeches, is urging it to do just that. He is offering a stark alternative to policies that threaten to turn Pakistan into what he calls \"a nuclear-armed Somalia\".Most Pakistani politics is conducted within a narrow spectrum. Politicians spend much time debating the best ways to fight India, or take Kashmir, or dominate Afghanistan, or punish the United States for its real and imagined sins. Now comes a voice arguing that these debates are meaningless in a country that cannot care for its own citizens and is fast becoming a pariah state.It is the voice of Husain Haqqani, a wily veteran of Pakistani politics who served as his country's ambassador to the United States from 2008 to 2011. During those years, Pakistani-American relations were fraught with tension and mistrust. Haqqani had to deal with fallout from the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden, and with the arrest of a CIA contractor, Raymond Davis, for the murder of two Pakistanis. His diplomatic skill and dense web of contacts in Washington helped contain these crises and maintain a semblance of partnership in the increasingly poisoned US-Pakistan relationship.Now Haqqani has published a book exploring the roots of this relationship and explaining how it became so toxic. Its arresting title is Magnificent Delusions: Pakistan, the United States, and an Epic History of Misunderstanding. As a trenchant and unsparing account of how these two countries came to mistrust each other so deeply, despite pretending to be friends, this book is unmatched. Its implicit message \u2013 the need to remake Pakistan \u2013 is even more provocative.Haqqani has been travelling around the United States, where he now lives, preaching this message. Officially he is on a book tour, but it feels like something more. Haqqani is laying out a radically different path for his homeland. His campaign is important not only to Pakistanis, but to all who are terrified by threats to global security posed by what Liam Fox, a former United Kingdom defense secretary, recently called \"the most dangerous country in the world\".In his speeches, Haqqani begins by rattling off statistics \u2013 43% of Pakistani children do not attend school \u2013 and recounting episodes that reflect the barbarism into which his country has fallen, like the murder of health workers giving polio vaccines. Then he describes Pakistan's role in training Islamic militants who have wreaked havoc in Afghanistan, India, and within Pakistan itself. His critique of obtuse and delusional American policies toward Pakistan \u2013 he blames the US for helping to undermine Pakistani democracy \u2013 is devastating.He told students at Brown University's Watson Institute for International Studies on Tuesday: The United States has to find some other way to deal with Muslims besides either killing them or taking them out to lunch.Haqqani concludes with his prescription for Pakistan: it sounds like common sense to many outsiders, but in Pakistan it is nothing short of revolutionary. To begin with, Haqqani wants his country to stop supporting militant armies and terror groups. He urges a reversal of attitudes toward India, which he sees not as a threatening enemy but as a potential partner. Domestically, he wants the government to redefine the meaning of security away from military prowess and toward the development of a modern society.He said in his Watson Institute speech: We are a warrior state, and we need to become a trading state.This message finds applause in the United States, and \"Magnificent Delusions\" has been well received in India. Remarkably, reviews in Pakistan have also been favorable. Haqqani has succeeded in widening the bounds of political discourse in his homeland. No Pakistani politician, however, is yet ready to campaign for high office on such a radical platform.In his book and speeches, Haqqani does not mention the possibility that he might do so himself. He is well known in Pakistan; may have as many friends there as enemies; is a Sunni married to a Shia woman from a prominent family; and has both a communal and regional base. Whether such an erudite cosmopolitan would be comfortable crisscrossing his country in an armored car, or campaigning while wearing a bulletproof vest, is far from clear. Even if Haqqani is not ready to return and preach his urgent message in Pakistan, however, Pakistanis need to hear it. If they do not, worse times lie ahead for them and their neighbors.\u2022 An earlier version of this article mistakenly referred to Nawaz Sharif as president of Pakistan. He is prime minister.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy", "India"], "title": "Pakistan needs to heed Husain Haqqani's urgent message of reform | Stephen Kinzer"},{"date": "2013-12-08T00:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The author Fatima Bhutto has had a lifetime of being asked about her surname. She comes from the \"cursed\" political dynasty in Pakistan: her grandfather, the former president Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was executed in 1979, three years before Fatima was born; her father, the radical politician Murtaza Bhutto, was shot dead by police in 1996; and her aunt, the former prime minister Benazir Bhutto, was killed in a bombing in 2007.Not surprisingly, Fatima has no desire to enter the political arena. \"No,\" she says, \"I always wanted to be a writer. I was very lucky to have a father who was a feminist and as a child I was always told I could do what I wanted to do and I loved to write. I'm doing my dream job! There's no way I'd surrender it.\"At 31, Bhutto has just published her first novel. The Shadow of the Crescent Moon is set over the course of one morning in a small town in Pakistan's tribal regions, close to the border with Afghanistan. It follows the story of three brothers who are forced to make difficult choices against a backdrop of continuous war. But the heart of the novel, for Bhutto, lies in the female characters.\"In my mind, it was this story of three brothers and then these women took over, just like Pakistani women do,\" she laughs. \"There is such a singular view of Pakistani women and it's such a shallow and very unfair view. There's an impression of how differently we do things, how downtrodden we are. Millions of women suffer but they [also] struggle, they resist and fight. It's a harsh country, an unfair country, but it also produces women with extraordinary spirit.\"In fact, it produces women such as Bhutto herself, who lost her father when she was 14. She was convinced that her aunt, who had fallen out with Murtaza and was prime minister at the time, was responsible. Bhutto wrote about Pakistani state-sanctioned violence in her memoir, Songs of Blood and Sword, which was published in 2010 and became a bestseller in her home country.When I ask how she feels about her aunt's legacy now, she politely declines to expand. \"The nice thing about doing fiction is that I don't feel I have to answer all these heavy political questions.\"Could Benazir have done more to empower ordinary women when she was in power? \"The only safety that women have in this country is with each other,\" Bhutto replies. \"They've never had it from power.\"At one point in her novel, Bhutto writes of a character feeling trapped by \"the ghosts of history\". Does she feel the same? \"I don't think it's just me,\" she says. \"This is a very young country \u2013 only 67 years old. With any country negotiating the future against a very turbulent past, you can't escape your heritage. Those ghosts of history are everywhere.\"", "tags": ["Fiction", "Benazir Bhutto", "Pakistan", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Fatima Bhutto: 'Pakistan produces women with extraordinary spirit'"},{"date": "2013-10-17T08:53:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani newspaper reporter Ayub Khattak was shot dead last week (11 October) because of his investigations into drug-dealing.Khattak, a journalist with the Karak Times, was approached outside his home in Karak, in the north-west province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, by two men on a motorcycle who asked him why he was investigating their drug dealing activities.They drove off, returning 15 minutes later bearing a Kalashnikov, and shot him several times. He died while being taken to hospital.A colleague, Haleem Bukhari, told the Paris-based press freedom watchdog, Reporters Without Borders, that Khattak had filed a story on the sale of drugs and drug-sellers.Local journalists demonstrated in protest at the murder, demanding justice for Khattak, the father of 10 children.Source: Reporters Without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Human rights", "Investigative journalism"], "title": "Pakistan journalist shot dead for investigating drug dealers"},{"date": "2013-10-15T11:00:56Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Huge numbers of goats, cows and even camels will be slaughtered in Pakistani on Wednesday homes to mark the Islamic holy day of Eid al-Adha.The sacrificial offering of around 6m animals will allow families to fulfil a religious duty, guarantee some much appreciated meat handouts to the poor and provide nearly half of the annual requirement of the country's leather industry.It will also generate an extraordinary cash windfall for some of Pakistan's most dangerous militant groups.Thinly disguised front organisations have been gearing up to compete against each other and legitimate charities to collect as many animal skins as possible, which can then be sold on for cash.\"For us it is second only to Ramadan for our income,\" says an official from the Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation (FIF).FIF is the charitable wing of Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), itself the reincarnation of one of south Asia's most dangerous militant groups, the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a banned organisation dedicated to fighting jihad against India.JuD has successfully fought off legal bans although many believe it remains deeply involved in militancy.The US government has offered $10m (\u00a36m) for information leading to the arrest of Hafiz Saeed, the group's leader accused by some US officials of masterminding and overseeing the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks.Saeed moves around the country freely. On Monday, he held a press conference outside a mosque in an affluent district of Islamabad.Surrounded by piles of food, toys and other goods that he said would be given to victims of last month's earthquake in Baluchistan, he appealed for people to give their animal hides to JuD.\"Whatever funds we get from hides of animals we will use in Baluchistan to rebuild houses and help the people,\" he said to a bank of almost 20 television cameras.The organisation hopes to collect 100,000 hides from around the country this year. A cow hide can fetch up to $50.Also available to buy are JuD livestock which the organisation provides and slaughters on behalf of individuals or groups who want to pool resources to share the cost.Such initiatives have helped the organisation take market share from other charities, including the Edhi Foundation, a much-respected social welfare group.\"It's hard to complete because they have more manpower from all their religious seminaries,\" said Mohammad Rashid from the Edhi Foundation in Islamabad. \"They send all their students out to the streets, to volunteer.\"Because JuD is not officially a banned organisation nothing will or can be done to stop it collecting hides.There are fears that very little will be done to stop illegal groups from collecting hides either, particularly as many of them operate under false names.Officials say around half of the 24 groups that applied for the right to set up street stalls to collect hides in Islamabad were rejected after they were investigated and found to be front organisations.In recent weeks newspapers have carried government advert warning people not to give hides to illegal groups. However, a thorough crackdown is unlikely.Muhammad Rizwan, the senior superintendent of police in Islamabad, said the issue was not as critical to public safety as preventing suicide bombers from getting into mosques or other large gatherings that will occur across the country in the coming days.\"Our focus has to be on security because we have 685 mosques in the city alone and many huge gatherings. All our resources will be focused onto that.\"While most people will give their hides to local mosques or respectable charities, some deliberately give to militants.\"Definitely why shouldn't I give to jihadi organisations,\" said Syed Sabir Hussain, a small business owner from Rawalpindi. \"What is wrong if they are fighting for Allah and Muslims?\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Eid al-Adha", "World news"], "title": "Eid animal slaughter funds Pakistan terror groups"},{"date": "2013-12-26T17:31:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Al-Qaida kidnappers in Pakistan have released a video of a captured American consultant, looking frail and appealing for help from Barack Obama.Warren Weinstein, 72, was seized two years ago while advising the Pakistani government on economic development and his captors have said they would only release him if the US stops all air strikes and releases terrorist suspects around the world.Within hours of the film's release, Pakistani intelligence officials said a suspected American drone had fired two missiles at a home in the northwestern tribal region bordering Afghanistan, killing at least three foreign militants.It was unclear which came first however. Associated Press reported the latest drone strike took place just before midnight Wednesday in the village of Qutab Khel in North Waziristan and was successfully targeted at Arab militants operating in the area.The video of Weinstein was released to Pakistani reporters on Christmas Day but first appeared in US media on Thursday.\"The years have taken their toll,\" Weinstein says in the 13-minute video, which describes how he is not in good health and suffers from acute asthma.Appearing to read from a statement, he adds: \"Nine years ago, I came to Pakistan to help my government and I did so at a time when most Americans would not come here,\" he said. \"And now, when I need my government, it seems I have been totally abandoned and forgotten.\"The former New York state university professor also appears to make a direct appeal to the US president.\"Mr Obama, you're a family man,\" Weinstein is seen to say. \"You understand the deep mental anxiety and anguish that I have been experiencing for these past more than two years. And therefore I'm appealing to you on a humanitarian basis, if nothing else, and asking that you take the necessary actions to expedite my release and my return to my family and to my country.\"The video is the third apparently released by his captors since Weinstein was taken on August 13, 2011 from his home in Lahore.The US state department in Washington said it was still trying to verify the video and a separate letter purporting to be from Weinstein, but repeated its demands for his immediate and unconditional release.\u201cWe're working hard to authenticate this latest report, but we reiterate our call that Warren Weinstein be released and returned to his family,\u201d said spokeswoman Jen Psaki. \u201cParticularly during this holiday season \u2013 another one away from his family \u2013 our hopes and prayers are with him and those who love and miss him.\"Weinstein, who has a home in Maryland, was country director in Pakistan for JE Austin Associates, a US-based firm that advises Pakistani businesses and government departments.Earlier videos released in September 2012 showed Weinstein appealing for help from the Jewish community and Israel's prime minister.", "tags": ["US news", "Pakistan", "Obama administration", "Al-Qaida", "World news"], "title": "American citizen abducted in Pakistan appeals to US for help"},{"date": "2013-12-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Just four months after taking power, new leaders in Iran have begun a highly promising effort to pull their country out of its isolation and, perhaps, transform it into a stabilizing rather than a destabilizing force. There is little prospect that Saudi Arabia or Israel, which also feed regional tensions, will follow suit. Yet some dare to hope that Pakistan might.The Middle East and surrounding regions are in a period of historic flux. Iran's new policies, upheaval in Egypt, horrific warfare in Syria, state collapse in Libya, and intensifying terror in Iraq reflect the collapse of old structures. One of those structures, in place for more than half a century, has been a Pakistan that falls steadily deeper into poverty while spending huge amounts on weaponry, fomenting terror in neighboring countries, and deepening its self-destructive obsession with imagined security threats.Pakistan stands at an intriguing crossroads. A new prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, took office in June. General Pervez Ashfaq Kayani, the army chief of staff who nourished Pakistan's ties with Islamic militants, has just retired. The mercurial chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, will retire this week. Meanwhile, Pakistanis are expressing increasing disgust with their political system. In several parts of the country they have taken to the streets to protest murderous attacks by militants who count on clandestine support from within the government.Pakistan is not about to crack down on terror groups or cut its military budget in order to build roads, schools and hospitals. Yet one prominent Pakistani, in a new book and a series of speeches, is urging it to do just that. He is offering a stark alternative to policies that threaten to turn Pakistan into what he calls \"a nuclear-armed Somalia\".Most Pakistani politics is conducted within a narrow spectrum. Politicians spend much time debating the best ways to fight India, or take Kashmir, or dominate Afghanistan, or punish the United States for its real and imagined sins. Now comes a voice arguing that these debates are meaningless in a country that cannot care for its own citizens and is fast becoming a pariah state.It is the voice of Husain Haqqani, a wily veteran of Pakistani politics who served as his country's ambassador to the United States from 2008 to 2011. During those years, Pakistani-American relations were fraught with tension and mistrust. Haqqani had to deal with fallout from the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden, and with the arrest of a CIA contractor, Raymond Davis, for the murder of two Pakistanis. His diplomatic skill and dense web of contacts in Washington helped contain these crises and maintain a semblance of partnership in the increasingly poisoned US-Pakistan relationship.Now Haqqani has published a book exploring the roots of this relationship and explaining how it became so toxic. Its arresting title is Magnificent Delusions: Pakistan, the United States, and an Epic History of Misunderstanding. As a trenchant and unsparing account of how these two countries came to mistrust each other so deeply, despite pretending to be friends, this book is unmatched. Its implicit message \u2013 the need to remake Pakistan \u2013 is even more provocative.Haqqani has been travelling around the United States, where he now lives, preaching this message. Officially he is on a book tour, but it feels like something more. Haqqani is laying out a radically different path for his homeland. His campaign is important not only to Pakistanis, but to all who are terrified by threats to global security posed by what Liam Fox, a former United Kingdom defense secretary, recently called \"the most dangerous country in the world\".In his speeches, Haqqani begins by rattling off statistics \u2013 43% of Pakistani children do not attend school \u2013 and recounting episodes that reflect the barbarism into which his country has fallen, like the murder of health workers giving polio vaccines. Then he describes Pakistan's role in training Islamic militants who have wreaked havoc in Afghanistan, India, and within Pakistan itself. His critique of obtuse and delusional American policies toward Pakistan \u2013 he blames the US for helping to undermine Pakistani democracy \u2013 is devastating.He told students at Brown University's Watson Institute for International Studies on Tuesday: The United States has to find some other way to deal with Muslims besides either killing them or taking them out to lunch.Haqqani concludes with his prescription for Pakistan: it sounds like common sense to many outsiders, but in Pakistan it is nothing short of revolutionary. To begin with, Haqqani wants his country to stop supporting militant armies and terror groups. He urges a reversal of attitudes toward India, which he sees not as a threatening enemy but as a potential partner. Domestically, he wants the government to redefine the meaning of security away from military prowess and toward the development of a modern society.He said in his Watson Institute speech: We are a warrior state, and we need to become a trading state.This message finds applause in the United States, and \"Magnificent Delusions\" has been well received in India. Remarkably, reviews in Pakistan have also been favorable. Haqqani has succeeded in widening the bounds of political discourse in his homeland. No Pakistani politician, however, is yet ready to campaign for high office on such a radical platform.In his book and speeches, Haqqani does not mention the possibility that he might do so himself. He is well known in Pakistan; may have as many friends there as enemies; is a Sunni married to a Shia woman from a prominent family; and has both a communal and regional base. Whether such an erudite cosmopolitan would be comfortable crisscrossing his country in an armored car, or campaigning while wearing a bulletproof vest, is far from clear. Even if Haqqani is not ready to return and preach his urgent message in Pakistan, however, Pakistanis need to hear it. If they do not, worse times lie ahead for them and their neighbors.\u2022 An earlier version of this article mistakenly referred to Nawaz Sharif as president of Pakistan. He is prime minister.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy", "India"], "title": "Pakistan needs to heed Husain Haqqani's urgent message of reform | Stephen Kinzer"},{"date": "2013-12-08T00:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The author Fatima Bhutto has had a lifetime of being asked about her surname. She comes from the \"cursed\" political dynasty in Pakistan: her grandfather, the former president Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was executed in 1979, three years before Fatima was born; her father, the radical politician Murtaza Bhutto, was shot dead by police in 1996; and her aunt, the former prime minister Benazir Bhutto, was killed in a bombing in 2007.Not surprisingly, Fatima has no desire to enter the political arena. \"No,\" she says, \"I always wanted to be a writer. I was very lucky to have a father who was a feminist and as a child I was always told I could do what I wanted to do and I loved to write. I'm doing my dream job! There's no way I'd surrender it.\"At 31, Bhutto has just published her first novel. The Shadow of the Crescent Moon is set over the course of one morning in a small town in Pakistan's tribal regions, close to the border with Afghanistan. It follows the story of three brothers who are forced to make difficult choices against a backdrop of continuous war. But the heart of the novel, for Bhutto, lies in the female characters.\"In my mind, it was this story of three brothers and then these women took over, just like Pakistani women do,\" she laughs. \"There is such a singular view of Pakistani women and it's such a shallow and very unfair view. There's an impression of how differently we do things, how downtrodden we are. Millions of women suffer but they [also] struggle, they resist and fight. It's a harsh country, an unfair country, but it also produces women with extraordinary spirit.\"In fact, it produces women such as Bhutto herself, who lost her father when she was 14. She was convinced that her aunt, who had fallen out with Murtaza and was prime minister at the time, was responsible. Bhutto wrote about Pakistani state-sanctioned violence in her memoir, Songs of Blood and Sword, which was published in 2010 and became a bestseller in her home country.When I ask how she feels about her aunt's legacy now, she politely declines to expand. \"The nice thing about doing fiction is that I don't feel I have to answer all these heavy political questions.\"Could Benazir have done more to empower ordinary women when she was in power? \"The only safety that women have in this country is with each other,\" Bhutto replies. \"They've never had it from power.\"At one point in her novel, Bhutto writes of a character feeling trapped by \"the ghosts of history\". Does she feel the same? \"I don't think it's just me,\" she says. \"This is a very young country \u2013 only 67 years old. With any country negotiating the future against a very turbulent past, you can't escape your heritage. Those ghosts of history are everywhere.\"", "tags": ["Fiction", "Benazir Bhutto", "Pakistan", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Fatima Bhutto: 'Pakistan produces women with extraordinary spirit'"},{"date": "2013-10-17T08:53:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani newspaper reporter Ayub Khattak was shot dead last week (11 October) because of his investigations into drug-dealing.Khattak, a journalist with the Karak Times, was approached outside his home in Karak, in the north-west province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, by two men on a motorcycle who asked him why he was investigating their drug dealing activities.They drove off, returning 15 minutes later bearing a Kalashnikov, and shot him several times. He died while being taken to hospital.A colleague, Haleem Bukhari, told the Paris-based press freedom watchdog, Reporters Without Borders, that Khattak had filed a story on the sale of drugs and drug-sellers.Local journalists demonstrated in protest at the murder, demanding justice for Khattak, the father of 10 children.Source: Reporters Without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Human rights", "Investigative journalism"], "title": "Pakistan journalist shot dead for investigating drug dealers"},{"date": "2013-10-09T19:03:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The leader of the Pakistani Taliban has used a rare television interview to invite representatives of the government to meet on militant controlled territory for \"serious talks\" about bringing peace to the country.Hakimullah Mehsud, the long-haired leader of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), told a BBC journalist he would guarantee the protection of government negotiators in order to start a discreet dialogue rather than trying to negotiate \"through the media\".\"The proper way to do it is that if the government appoints a formal team, and they sit with us, and we discuss our respective positions,\" he said during an interview at an undisclosed location in the country's north-west that was quite unlike the carefully staged propaganda videos the militant leader has previously featured in.The prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, campaigned in this year's election for peace talks to resolve Pakistan's bloody internal conflict but little progress has been made since senior politicians agreed in September to support such a process.The policy has also been harshly criticised in the media in the wake of a sequence of bloody bomb attacks on civilians.Although the TTP's spokesman had already signalled the group's willingness to talk, the intervention by the country's most wanted man is likely to further stoke controversy.It will hearten those who have argued that the TTP is not responsible for some of most horrific terrorist attacks, including the recent bombings of the church and crowded bazaar in the city of Peshawar.Such attacks on the public were carried about by \"spy agencies\" Mehsud claimed.\"[The] purpose behind those attacks is to move the masses against Taliban so that public support towards us is stopped,\" he said.He complained the government had not yet tried to contact him, highlighting the difficulties of getting talks off the ground.Imran Khan, the head of a leading opposition party, has called for the TTP to be allowed to set up an office where talks could take place saying the discussions \"should not happen in caves\".Mehsud also said neither side should have any publicly announced pre-conditions.But he made clear that any deal acceptable to the TTP would have to lead to the imposition of Sharia law in the country and an end to CIA drone strikes in Pakistan's troubled borderlands which have killed scores of senior militants.It is unlikely the government could deliver either demand even if it wanted to.He said the TTP's campaign would not end after the withdrawal of US combat troops from Afghanistan by the end of next year. Many Pakistanis blame the US presence in the region for the instability that has plagued the country in the last decade.\"America is one of the two reasons we have to conduct a jihad against Pakistan,\" he said. \"The other reason is that Pakistan's system is unIslamic, and we want it replaced with an Islamic system.\"Mehsud became leader of the TTP in 2009 which has claimed responsibility for attacks in both Pakistan, Afghanistan and around the world, including a failed bombing of Times Square in New York.Implicated in many crimes, the US government has offered a $5m reward for assistance leading to his arrest.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "World news"], "title": "Taliban leader invites Pakistan government to 'serious talks'"},{"date": "2013-10-15T11:00:56Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Huge numbers of goats, cows and even camels will be slaughtered in Pakistani on Wednesday homes to mark the Islamic holy day of Eid al-Adha.The sacrificial offering of around 6m animals will allow families to fulfil a religious duty, guarantee some much appreciated meat handouts to the poor and provide nearly half of the annual requirement of the country's leather industry.It will also generate an extraordinary cash windfall for some of Pakistan's most dangerous militant groups.Thinly disguised front organisations have been gearing up to compete against each other and legitimate charities to collect as many animal skins as possible, which can then be sold on for cash.\"For us it is second only to Ramadan for our income,\" says an official from the Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation (FIF).FIF is the charitable wing of Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), itself the reincarnation of one of south Asia's most dangerous militant groups, the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a banned organisation dedicated to fighting jihad against India.JuD has successfully fought off legal bans although many believe it remains deeply involved in militancy.The US government has offered $10m (\u00a36m) for information leading to the arrest of Hafiz Saeed, the group's leader accused by some US officials of masterminding and overseeing the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks.Saeed moves around the country freely. On Monday, he held a press conference outside a mosque in an affluent district of Islamabad.Surrounded by piles of food, toys and other goods that he said would be given to victims of last month's earthquake in Baluchistan, he appealed for people to give their animal hides to JuD.\"Whatever funds we get from hides of animals we will use in Baluchistan to rebuild houses and help the people,\" he said to a bank of almost 20 television cameras.The organisation hopes to collect 100,000 hides from around the country this year. A cow hide can fetch up to $50.Also available to buy are JuD livestock which the organisation provides and slaughters on behalf of individuals or groups who want to pool resources to share the cost.Such initiatives have helped the organisation take market share from other charities, including the Edhi Foundation, a much-respected social welfare group.\"It's hard to complete because they have more manpower from all their religious seminaries,\" said Mohammad Rashid from the Edhi Foundation in Islamabad. \"They send all their students out to the streets, to volunteer.\"Because JuD is not officially a banned organisation nothing will or can be done to stop it collecting hides.There are fears that very little will be done to stop illegal groups from collecting hides either, particularly as many of them operate under false names.Officials say around half of the 24 groups that applied for the right to set up street stalls to collect hides in Islamabad were rejected after they were investigated and found to be front organisations.In recent weeks newspapers have carried government advert warning people not to give hides to illegal groups. However, a thorough crackdown is unlikely.Muhammad Rizwan, the senior superintendent of police in Islamabad, said the issue was not as critical to public safety as preventing suicide bombers from getting into mosques or other large gatherings that will occur across the country in the coming days.\"Our focus has to be on security because we have 685 mosques in the city alone and many huge gatherings. All our resources will be focused onto that.\"While most people will give their hides to local mosques or respectable charities, some deliberately give to militants.\"Definitely why shouldn't I give to jihadi organisations,\" said Syed Sabir Hussain, a small business owner from Rawalpindi. \"What is wrong if they are fighting for Allah and Muslims?\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Eid al-Adha", "World news"], "title": "Eid animal slaughter funds Pakistan terror groups"},{"date": "2013-12-26T17:31:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Al-Qaida kidnappers in Pakistan have released a video of a captured American consultant, looking frail and appealing for help from Barack Obama.Warren Weinstein, 72, was seized two years ago while advising the Pakistani government on economic development and his captors have said they would only release him if the US stops all air strikes and releases terrorist suspects around the world.Within hours of the film's release, Pakistani intelligence officials said a suspected American drone had fired two missiles at a home in the northwestern tribal region bordering Afghanistan, killing at least three foreign militants.It was unclear which came first however. Associated Press reported the latest drone strike took place just before midnight Wednesday in the village of Qutab Khel in North Waziristan and was successfully targeted at Arab militants operating in the area.The video of Weinstein was released to Pakistani reporters on Christmas Day but first appeared in US media on Thursday.\"The years have taken their toll,\" Weinstein says in the 13-minute video, which describes how he is not in good health and suffers from acute asthma.Appearing to read from a statement, he adds: \"Nine years ago, I came to Pakistan to help my government and I did so at a time when most Americans would not come here,\" he said. \"And now, when I need my government, it seems I have been totally abandoned and forgotten.\"The former New York state university professor also appears to make a direct appeal to the US president.\"Mr Obama, you're a family man,\" Weinstein is seen to say. \"You understand the deep mental anxiety and anguish that I have been experiencing for these past more than two years. And therefore I'm appealing to you on a humanitarian basis, if nothing else, and asking that you take the necessary actions to expedite my release and my return to my family and to my country.\"The video is the third apparently released by his captors since Weinstein was taken on August 13, 2011 from his home in Lahore.The US state department in Washington said it was still trying to verify the video and a separate letter purporting to be from Weinstein, but repeated its demands for his immediate and unconditional release.\u201cWe're working hard to authenticate this latest report, but we reiterate our call that Warren Weinstein be released and returned to his family,\u201d said spokeswoman Jen Psaki. \u201cParticularly during this holiday season \u2013 another one away from his family \u2013 our hopes and prayers are with him and those who love and miss him.\"Weinstein, who has a home in Maryland, was country director in Pakistan for JE Austin Associates, a US-based firm that advises Pakistani businesses and government departments.Earlier videos released in September 2012 showed Weinstein appealing for help from the Jewish community and Israel's prime minister.", "tags": ["US news", "Pakistan", "Obama administration", "Al-Qaida", "World news"], "title": "American citizen abducted in Pakistan appeals to US for help"},{"date": "2013-12-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Just four months after taking power, new leaders in Iran have begun a highly promising effort to pull their country out of its isolation and, perhaps, transform it into a stabilizing rather than a destabilizing force. There is little prospect that Saudi Arabia or Israel, which also feed regional tensions, will follow suit. Yet some dare to hope that Pakistan might.The Middle East and surrounding regions are in a period of historic flux. Iran's new policies, upheaval in Egypt, horrific warfare in Syria, state collapse in Libya, and intensifying terror in Iraq reflect the collapse of old structures. One of those structures, in place for more than half a century, has been a Pakistan that falls steadily deeper into poverty while spending huge amounts on weaponry, fomenting terror in neighboring countries, and deepening its self-destructive obsession with imagined security threats.Pakistan stands at an intriguing crossroads. A new prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, took office in June. General Pervez Ashfaq Kayani, the army chief of staff who nourished Pakistan's ties with Islamic militants, has just retired. The mercurial chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, will retire this week. Meanwhile, Pakistanis are expressing increasing disgust with their political system. In several parts of the country they have taken to the streets to protest murderous attacks by militants who count on clandestine support from within the government.Pakistan is not about to crack down on terror groups or cut its military budget in order to build roads, schools and hospitals. Yet one prominent Pakistani, in a new book and a series of speeches, is urging it to do just that. He is offering a stark alternative to policies that threaten to turn Pakistan into what he calls \"a nuclear-armed Somalia\".Most Pakistani politics is conducted within a narrow spectrum. Politicians spend much time debating the best ways to fight India, or take Kashmir, or dominate Afghanistan, or punish the United States for its real and imagined sins. Now comes a voice arguing that these debates are meaningless in a country that cannot care for its own citizens and is fast becoming a pariah state.It is the voice of Husain Haqqani, a wily veteran of Pakistani politics who served as his country's ambassador to the United States from 2008 to 2011. During those years, Pakistani-American relations were fraught with tension and mistrust. Haqqani had to deal with fallout from the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden, and with the arrest of a CIA contractor, Raymond Davis, for the murder of two Pakistanis. His diplomatic skill and dense web of contacts in Washington helped contain these crises and maintain a semblance of partnership in the increasingly poisoned US-Pakistan relationship.Now Haqqani has published a book exploring the roots of this relationship and explaining how it became so toxic. Its arresting title is Magnificent Delusions: Pakistan, the United States, and an Epic History of Misunderstanding. As a trenchant and unsparing account of how these two countries came to mistrust each other so deeply, despite pretending to be friends, this book is unmatched. Its implicit message \u2013 the need to remake Pakistan \u2013 is even more provocative.Haqqani has been travelling around the United States, where he now lives, preaching this message. Officially he is on a book tour, but it feels like something more. Haqqani is laying out a radically different path for his homeland. His campaign is important not only to Pakistanis, but to all who are terrified by threats to global security posed by what Liam Fox, a former United Kingdom defense secretary, recently called \"the most dangerous country in the world\".In his speeches, Haqqani begins by rattling off statistics \u2013 43% of Pakistani children do not attend school \u2013 and recounting episodes that reflect the barbarism into which his country has fallen, like the murder of health workers giving polio vaccines. Then he describes Pakistan's role in training Islamic militants who have wreaked havoc in Afghanistan, India, and within Pakistan itself. His critique of obtuse and delusional American policies toward Pakistan \u2013 he blames the US for helping to undermine Pakistani democracy \u2013 is devastating.He told students at Brown University's Watson Institute for International Studies on Tuesday: The United States has to find some other way to deal with Muslims besides either killing them or taking them out to lunch.Haqqani concludes with his prescription for Pakistan: it sounds like common sense to many outsiders, but in Pakistan it is nothing short of revolutionary. To begin with, Haqqani wants his country to stop supporting militant armies and terror groups. He urges a reversal of attitudes toward India, which he sees not as a threatening enemy but as a potential partner. Domestically, he wants the government to redefine the meaning of security away from military prowess and toward the development of a modern society.He said in his Watson Institute speech: We are a warrior state, and we need to become a trading state.This message finds applause in the United States, and \"Magnificent Delusions\" has been well received in India. Remarkably, reviews in Pakistan have also been favorable. Haqqani has succeeded in widening the bounds of political discourse in his homeland. No Pakistani politician, however, is yet ready to campaign for high office on such a radical platform.In his book and speeches, Haqqani does not mention the possibility that he might do so himself. He is well known in Pakistan; may have as many friends there as enemies; is a Sunni married to a Shia woman from a prominent family; and has both a communal and regional base. Whether such an erudite cosmopolitan would be comfortable crisscrossing his country in an armored car, or campaigning while wearing a bulletproof vest, is far from clear. Even if Haqqani is not ready to return and preach his urgent message in Pakistan, however, Pakistanis need to hear it. If they do not, worse times lie ahead for them and their neighbors.\u2022 An earlier version of this article mistakenly referred to Nawaz Sharif as president of Pakistan. He is prime minister.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy", "India"], "title": "Pakistan needs to heed Husain Haqqani's urgent message of reform | Stephen Kinzer"},{"date": "2013-12-08T00:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The author Fatima Bhutto has had a lifetime of being asked about her surname. She comes from the \"cursed\" political dynasty in Pakistan: her grandfather, the former president Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was executed in 1979, three years before Fatima was born; her father, the radical politician Murtaza Bhutto, was shot dead by police in 1996; and her aunt, the former prime minister Benazir Bhutto, was killed in a bombing in 2007.Not surprisingly, Fatima has no desire to enter the political arena. \"No,\" she says, \"I always wanted to be a writer. I was very lucky to have a father who was a feminist and as a child I was always told I could do what I wanted to do and I loved to write. I'm doing my dream job! There's no way I'd surrender it.\"At 31, Bhutto has just published her first novel. The Shadow of the Crescent Moon is set over the course of one morning in a small town in Pakistan's tribal regions, close to the border with Afghanistan. It follows the story of three brothers who are forced to make difficult choices against a backdrop of continuous war. But the heart of the novel, for Bhutto, lies in the female characters.\"In my mind, it was this story of three brothers and then these women took over, just like Pakistani women do,\" she laughs. \"There is such a singular view of Pakistani women and it's such a shallow and very unfair view. There's an impression of how differently we do things, how downtrodden we are. Millions of women suffer but they [also] struggle, they resist and fight. It's a harsh country, an unfair country, but it also produces women with extraordinary spirit.\"In fact, it produces women such as Bhutto herself, who lost her father when she was 14. She was convinced that her aunt, who had fallen out with Murtaza and was prime minister at the time, was responsible. Bhutto wrote about Pakistani state-sanctioned violence in her memoir, Songs of Blood and Sword, which was published in 2010 and became a bestseller in her home country.When I ask how she feels about her aunt's legacy now, she politely declines to expand. \"The nice thing about doing fiction is that I don't feel I have to answer all these heavy political questions.\"Could Benazir have done more to empower ordinary women when she was in power? \"The only safety that women have in this country is with each other,\" Bhutto replies. \"They've never had it from power.\"At one point in her novel, Bhutto writes of a character feeling trapped by \"the ghosts of history\". Does she feel the same? \"I don't think it's just me,\" she says. \"This is a very young country \u2013 only 67 years old. With any country negotiating the future against a very turbulent past, you can't escape your heritage. Those ghosts of history are everywhere.\"", "tags": ["Fiction", "Benazir Bhutto", "Pakistan", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Fatima Bhutto: 'Pakistan produces women with extraordinary spirit'"},{"date": "2013-10-17T08:53:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani newspaper reporter Ayub Khattak was shot dead last week (11 October) because of his investigations into drug-dealing.Khattak, a journalist with the Karak Times, was approached outside his home in Karak, in the north-west province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, by two men on a motorcycle who asked him why he was investigating their drug dealing activities.They drove off, returning 15 minutes later bearing a Kalashnikov, and shot him several times. He died while being taken to hospital.A colleague, Haleem Bukhari, told the Paris-based press freedom watchdog, Reporters Without Borders, that Khattak had filed a story on the sale of drugs and drug-sellers.Local journalists demonstrated in protest at the murder, demanding justice for Khattak, the father of 10 children.Source: Reporters Without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Human rights", "Investigative journalism"], "title": "Pakistan journalist shot dead for investigating drug dealers"},{"date": "2013-10-09T19:03:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The leader of the Pakistani Taliban has used a rare television interview to invite representatives of the government to meet on militant controlled territory for \"serious talks\" about bringing peace to the country.Hakimullah Mehsud, the long-haired leader of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), told a BBC journalist he would guarantee the protection of government negotiators in order to start a discreet dialogue rather than trying to negotiate \"through the media\".\"The proper way to do it is that if the government appoints a formal team, and they sit with us, and we discuss our respective positions,\" he said during an interview at an undisclosed location in the country's north-west that was quite unlike the carefully staged propaganda videos the militant leader has previously featured in.The prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, campaigned in this year's election for peace talks to resolve Pakistan's bloody internal conflict but little progress has been made since senior politicians agreed in September to support such a process.The policy has also been harshly criticised in the media in the wake of a sequence of bloody bomb attacks on civilians.Although the TTP's spokesman had already signalled the group's willingness to talk, the intervention by the country's most wanted man is likely to further stoke controversy.It will hearten those who have argued that the TTP is not responsible for some of most horrific terrorist attacks, including the recent bombings of the church and crowded bazaar in the city of Peshawar.Such attacks on the public were carried about by \"spy agencies\" Mehsud claimed.\"[The] purpose behind those attacks is to move the masses against Taliban so that public support towards us is stopped,\" he said.He complained the government had not yet tried to contact him, highlighting the difficulties of getting talks off the ground.Imran Khan, the head of a leading opposition party, has called for the TTP to be allowed to set up an office where talks could take place saying the discussions \"should not happen in caves\".Mehsud also said neither side should have any publicly announced pre-conditions.But he made clear that any deal acceptable to the TTP would have to lead to the imposition of Sharia law in the country and an end to CIA drone strikes in Pakistan's troubled borderlands which have killed scores of senior militants.It is unlikely the government could deliver either demand even if it wanted to.He said the TTP's campaign would not end after the withdrawal of US combat troops from Afghanistan by the end of next year. Many Pakistanis blame the US presence in the region for the instability that has plagued the country in the last decade.\"America is one of the two reasons we have to conduct a jihad against Pakistan,\" he said. \"The other reason is that Pakistan's system is unIslamic, and we want it replaced with an Islamic system.\"Mehsud became leader of the TTP in 2009 which has claimed responsibility for attacks in both Pakistan, Afghanistan and around the world, including a failed bombing of Times Square in New York.Implicated in many crimes, the US government has offered a $5m reward for assistance leading to his arrest.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "World news"], "title": "Taliban leader invites Pakistan government to 'serious talks'"},{"date": "2013-12-26T17:33:57Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Friends of a London student who was kidnapped in Pakistan almost two years ago have spoken for the first time about their growing fears for his safety.Giovanni Lo Porto, 38, who studied at London Metropolitan University, travelled to the Punjab region in January 2012 to take up a position as a humanitarian aid worker. But soon after his arrival Lo Porto and a German colleague, Bernd M\u00fchlenbeck, were abducted.Apart from one short video appeal by M\u00fchlenbeck released last Christmas, neither man has been heard from.Sarah Neal, a fellow student and close friend of Lo Porto, said: \"I am incredibly worried about him. It's been 22 months now and we have no way of knowing how his captors treat him. I just want him back.\"Staff and students from London Met have not spoken out until now in the hope that the authorities in Italy, where Lo Porto was born, would be able to negotiate his release. But after almost two years without news, they have decided to break their silence.\"When Giovanni was abducted we hoped that he would be returned through quiet diplomacy,\" said Professor Mike Newman, who taught Lo Porto at London Met. \"But he has now been held in Pakistan for nearly two years and we agree with his friends and supporters in Italy who are calling for an end to the policy of silence.\"After graduating from the peace and conflict studies course at London Met in 2010, Lo Porto, an experienced aid worker, joined short-term projects in the Central African Republic and Haiti before travelling to Pakistan to help rebuild an area hit by severe flooding.According to friends, he fell in love with the region and worked to improve water supplies and sanitation in the Punjab, returning again at the beginning of 2012.Newman last heard from Lo Porto when he got in touch shortly after arriving in Pakistan. \"He told me: 'I'm happy to be back in Asia and Pakistan, I do love the people, the culture and the food of this part of the world',\" said Newman. \"Pakistan was his real love and he felt he had done a good job there establishing positive relations with the local population and staff. He was so delighted to be back.\"Newman said Giovanni is a \"warm, friendly, open-minded person\" who was very popular with staff and students.\"He enriched the discussions for all of us by drawing on his varied experience of working in complex situations in many parts of the world. His approach was always questioning and he certainly had no time for simplistic western policy agendas,\" said Newman.Neal said Lo Porto was an incredibly supportive friend and went out of his way to help others. \"He came to London Met on the day we had to hand in our dissertation purely to help others \u2013 he'd already submitted his thesis the day before. So that's what he did: he edited, proof-read, and helped bind them until submission closed.\"He is incredibly loyal to his friends and shows that in many small and big ways, you can always rely on him.\"She said his friends were growing increasingly concerned about his well-being. \"I am worried that they'll break him \u2013 physically and mentally,\" Neal said. \"Although sometimes I think that if anyone could be friends with his captors, it would be Giovanni.\"Lo Porto's friends have now launched a petition for his return and are calling on anyone with influence to help secure his release.Newman said: \"It is tragic that such people, with both expertise and a genuine passion for humanitarian work, should be held in this way. On this anniversary of their seizure in Multan, I call on all those who have influence in the area to bring about the return of Giovanni Lo Porto and Bernd M\u00fchlenbeck to their friends and families.\"The Farnesina, Italy's foreign ministry, declined to comment. Its crisis unit is in contact with Lo Porto's family but the authorities are understood to want to maintain as much discretion as possible surrounding the case due to its \"very delicate\" nature.In Italy, a petition calling on the Italian president, Giorgio Napolitano, and the prime minister, Enrico Letta, to ensure \"all possible efforts\" are made to bring about Lo Porto's release has been signed by nearly 48,000 people.But Pietro Barbieri, chairman of the National Third Sector Forum (FNTS) and one of the people who drafted the petition, said that in general the case has received very little attention in Italy, and that this was the reason why the petition was so necessary.\"He is not a journalist for a big newspaper. He is not a member of a big Italian NGO. He is not a member of the military. He is an Italian citizen \u2013 capable, on the ball \u2013 who, at the same time, however, works for a foreign NGO,\" he said. \"There is no one [in public] pushing it [his case].\"Urging Letta to enter into the efforts personally, Barbieri said that he had received a letter from the foreign ministry assuring him that \"every effort\" was being made and that the case was being treated as a priority.But, he said, the time had come for Letta to act. \"He has every possibility to do so,\" Barbieri said.He added: \"We believe our country has to take charge, but not only the institutions but the media, the opinion-formers, the population in general. It is absurd that the Lo Porto case is never discussed.\"This is someone who has been in captivity for nearly two years now. He is, among other things, an expert; not some kind of tourist, but someone with internationally recognised abilities.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Aid", "Society", "Global development", "World news", "Italy", "Europe", "London Metropolitan University", "Education"], "title": "Giovanni Lo Porto's friends break cover two years after his kidnap in Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-10-15T11:00:56Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Huge numbers of goats, cows and even camels will be slaughtered in Pakistani on Wednesday homes to mark the Islamic holy day of Eid al-Adha.The sacrificial offering of around 6m animals will allow families to fulfil a religious duty, guarantee some much appreciated meat handouts to the poor and provide nearly half of the annual requirement of the country's leather industry.It will also generate an extraordinary cash windfall for some of Pakistan's most dangerous militant groups.Thinly disguised front organisations have been gearing up to compete against each other and legitimate charities to collect as many animal skins as possible, which can then be sold on for cash.\"For us it is second only to Ramadan for our income,\" says an official from the Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation (FIF).FIF is the charitable wing of Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), itself the reincarnation of one of south Asia's most dangerous militant groups, the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a banned organisation dedicated to fighting jihad against India.JuD has successfully fought off legal bans although many believe it remains deeply involved in militancy.The US government has offered $10m (\u00a36m) for information leading to the arrest of Hafiz Saeed, the group's leader accused by some US officials of masterminding and overseeing the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks.Saeed moves around the country freely. On Monday, he held a press conference outside a mosque in an affluent district of Islamabad.Surrounded by piles of food, toys and other goods that he said would be given to victims of last month's earthquake in Baluchistan, he appealed for people to give their animal hides to JuD.\"Whatever funds we get from hides of animals we will use in Baluchistan to rebuild houses and help the people,\" he said to a bank of almost 20 television cameras.The organisation hopes to collect 100,000 hides from around the country this year. A cow hide can fetch up to $50.Also available to buy are JuD livestock which the organisation provides and slaughters on behalf of individuals or groups who want to pool resources to share the cost.Such initiatives have helped the organisation take market share from other charities, including the Edhi Foundation, a much-respected social welfare group.\"It's hard to complete because they have more manpower from all their religious seminaries,\" said Mohammad Rashid from the Edhi Foundation in Islamabad. \"They send all their students out to the streets, to volunteer.\"Because JuD is not officially a banned organisation nothing will or can be done to stop it collecting hides.There are fears that very little will be done to stop illegal groups from collecting hides either, particularly as many of them operate under false names.Officials say around half of the 24 groups that applied for the right to set up street stalls to collect hides in Islamabad were rejected after they were investigated and found to be front organisations.In recent weeks newspapers have carried government advert warning people not to give hides to illegal groups. However, a thorough crackdown is unlikely.Muhammad Rizwan, the senior superintendent of police in Islamabad, said the issue was not as critical to public safety as preventing suicide bombers from getting into mosques or other large gatherings that will occur across the country in the coming days.\"Our focus has to be on security because we have 685 mosques in the city alone and many huge gatherings. All our resources will be focused onto that.\"While most people will give their hides to local mosques or respectable charities, some deliberately give to militants.\"Definitely why shouldn't I give to jihadi organisations,\" said Syed Sabir Hussain, a small business owner from Rawalpindi. \"What is wrong if they are fighting for Allah and Muslims?\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Eid al-Adha", "World news"], "title": "Eid animal slaughter funds Pakistan terror groups"},{"date": "2013-12-26T17:31:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Al-Qaida kidnappers in Pakistan have released a video of a captured American consultant, looking frail and appealing for help from Barack Obama.Warren Weinstein, 72, was seized two years ago while advising the Pakistani government on economic development and his captors have said they would only release him if the US stops all air strikes and releases terrorist suspects around the world.Within hours of the film's release, Pakistani intelligence officials said a suspected American drone had fired two missiles at a home in the northwestern tribal region bordering Afghanistan, killing at least three foreign militants.It was unclear which came first however. Associated Press reported the latest drone strike took place just before midnight Wednesday in the village of Qutab Khel in North Waziristan and was successfully targeted at Arab militants operating in the area.The video of Weinstein was released to Pakistani reporters on Christmas Day but first appeared in US media on Thursday.\"The years have taken their toll,\" Weinstein says in the 13-minute video, which describes how he is not in good health and suffers from acute asthma.Appearing to read from a statement, he adds: \"Nine years ago, I came to Pakistan to help my government and I did so at a time when most Americans would not come here,\" he said. \"And now, when I need my government, it seems I have been totally abandoned and forgotten.\"The former New York state university professor also appears to make a direct appeal to the US president.\"Mr Obama, you're a family man,\" Weinstein is seen to say. \"You understand the deep mental anxiety and anguish that I have been experiencing for these past more than two years. And therefore I'm appealing to you on a humanitarian basis, if nothing else, and asking that you take the necessary actions to expedite my release and my return to my family and to my country.\"The video is the third apparently released by his captors since Weinstein was taken on August 13, 2011 from his home in Lahore.The US state department in Washington said it was still trying to verify the video and a separate letter purporting to be from Weinstein, but repeated its demands for his immediate and unconditional release.\u201cWe're working hard to authenticate this latest report, but we reiterate our call that Warren Weinstein be released and returned to his family,\u201d said spokeswoman Jen Psaki. \u201cParticularly during this holiday season \u2013 another one away from his family \u2013 our hopes and prayers are with him and those who love and miss him.\"Weinstein, who has a home in Maryland, was country director in Pakistan for JE Austin Associates, a US-based firm that advises Pakistani businesses and government departments.Earlier videos released in September 2012 showed Weinstein appealing for help from the Jewish community and Israel's prime minister.", "tags": ["US news", "Pakistan", "Obama administration", "Al-Qaida", "World news"], "title": "American citizen abducted in Pakistan appeals to US for help"},{"date": "2013-12-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Just four months after taking power, new leaders in Iran have begun a highly promising effort to pull their country out of its isolation and, perhaps, transform it into a stabilizing rather than a destabilizing force. There is little prospect that Saudi Arabia or Israel, which also feed regional tensions, will follow suit. Yet some dare to hope that Pakistan might.The Middle East and surrounding regions are in a period of historic flux. Iran's new policies, upheaval in Egypt, horrific warfare in Syria, state collapse in Libya, and intensifying terror in Iraq reflect the collapse of old structures. One of those structures, in place for more than half a century, has been a Pakistan that falls steadily deeper into poverty while spending huge amounts on weaponry, fomenting terror in neighboring countries, and deepening its self-destructive obsession with imagined security threats.Pakistan stands at an intriguing crossroads. A new prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, took office in June. General Pervez Ashfaq Kayani, the army chief of staff who nourished Pakistan's ties with Islamic militants, has just retired. The mercurial chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, will retire this week. Meanwhile, Pakistanis are expressing increasing disgust with their political system. In several parts of the country they have taken to the streets to protest murderous attacks by militants who count on clandestine support from within the government.Pakistan is not about to crack down on terror groups or cut its military budget in order to build roads, schools and hospitals. Yet one prominent Pakistani, in a new book and a series of speeches, is urging it to do just that. He is offering a stark alternative to policies that threaten to turn Pakistan into what he calls \"a nuclear-armed Somalia\".Most Pakistani politics is conducted within a narrow spectrum. Politicians spend much time debating the best ways to fight India, or take Kashmir, or dominate Afghanistan, or punish the United States for its real and imagined sins. Now comes a voice arguing that these debates are meaningless in a country that cannot care for its own citizens and is fast becoming a pariah state.It is the voice of Husain Haqqani, a wily veteran of Pakistani politics who served as his country's ambassador to the United States from 2008 to 2011. During those years, Pakistani-American relations were fraught with tension and mistrust. Haqqani had to deal with fallout from the American raid that killed Osama bin Laden, and with the arrest of a CIA contractor, Raymond Davis, for the murder of two Pakistanis. His diplomatic skill and dense web of contacts in Washington helped contain these crises and maintain a semblance of partnership in the increasingly poisoned US-Pakistan relationship.Now Haqqani has published a book exploring the roots of this relationship and explaining how it became so toxic. Its arresting title is Magnificent Delusions: Pakistan, the United States, and an Epic History of Misunderstanding. As a trenchant and unsparing account of how these two countries came to mistrust each other so deeply, despite pretending to be friends, this book is unmatched. Its implicit message \u2013 the need to remake Pakistan \u2013 is even more provocative.Haqqani has been travelling around the United States, where he now lives, preaching this message. Officially he is on a book tour, but it feels like something more. Haqqani is laying out a radically different path for his homeland. His campaign is important not only to Pakistanis, but to all who are terrified by threats to global security posed by what Liam Fox, a former United Kingdom defense secretary, recently called \"the most dangerous country in the world\".In his speeches, Haqqani begins by rattling off statistics \u2013 43% of Pakistani children do not attend school \u2013 and recounting episodes that reflect the barbarism into which his country has fallen, like the murder of health workers giving polio vaccines. Then he describes Pakistan's role in training Islamic militants who have wreaked havoc in Afghanistan, India, and within Pakistan itself. His critique of obtuse and delusional American policies toward Pakistan \u2013 he blames the US for helping to undermine Pakistani democracy \u2013 is devastating.He told students at Brown University's Watson Institute for International Studies on Tuesday: The United States has to find some other way to deal with Muslims besides either killing them or taking them out to lunch.Haqqani concludes with his prescription for Pakistan: it sounds like common sense to many outsiders, but in Pakistan it is nothing short of revolutionary. To begin with, Haqqani wants his country to stop supporting militant armies and terror groups. He urges a reversal of attitudes toward India, which he sees not as a threatening enemy but as a potential partner. Domestically, he wants the government to redefine the meaning of security away from military prowess and toward the development of a modern society.He said in his Watson Institute speech: We are a warrior state, and we need to become a trading state.This message finds applause in the United States, and \"Magnificent Delusions\" has been well received in India. Remarkably, reviews in Pakistan have also been favorable. Haqqani has succeeded in widening the bounds of political discourse in his homeland. No Pakistani politician, however, is yet ready to campaign for high office on such a radical platform.In his book and speeches, Haqqani does not mention the possibility that he might do so himself. He is well known in Pakistan; may have as many friends there as enemies; is a Sunni married to a Shia woman from a prominent family; and has both a communal and regional base. Whether such an erudite cosmopolitan would be comfortable crisscrossing his country in an armored car, or campaigning while wearing a bulletproof vest, is far from clear. Even if Haqqani is not ready to return and preach his urgent message in Pakistan, however, Pakistanis need to hear it. If they do not, worse times lie ahead for them and their neighbors.\u2022 An earlier version of this article mistakenly referred to Nawaz Sharif as president of Pakistan. He is prime minister.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "US news", "World news", "US foreign policy", "India"], "title": "Pakistan needs to heed Husain Haqqani's urgent message of reform | Stephen Kinzer"},{"date": "2013-12-08T00:05:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The author Fatima Bhutto has had a lifetime of being asked about her surname. She comes from the \"cursed\" political dynasty in Pakistan: her grandfather, the former president Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was executed in 1979, three years before Fatima was born; her father, the radical politician Murtaza Bhutto, was shot dead by police in 1996; and her aunt, the former prime minister Benazir Bhutto, was killed in a bombing in 2007.Not surprisingly, Fatima has no desire to enter the political arena. \"No,\" she says, \"I always wanted to be a writer. I was very lucky to have a father who was a feminist and as a child I was always told I could do what I wanted to do and I loved to write. I'm doing my dream job! There's no way I'd surrender it.\"At 31, Bhutto has just published her first novel. The Shadow of the Crescent Moon is set over the course of one morning in a small town in Pakistan's tribal regions, close to the border with Afghanistan. It follows the story of three brothers who are forced to make difficult choices against a backdrop of continuous war. But the heart of the novel, for Bhutto, lies in the female characters.\"In my mind, it was this story of three brothers and then these women took over, just like Pakistani women do,\" she laughs. \"There is such a singular view of Pakistani women and it's such a shallow and very unfair view. There's an impression of how differently we do things, how downtrodden we are. Millions of women suffer but they [also] struggle, they resist and fight. It's a harsh country, an unfair country, but it also produces women with extraordinary spirit.\"In fact, it produces women such as Bhutto herself, who lost her father when she was 14. She was convinced that her aunt, who had fallen out with Murtaza and was prime minister at the time, was responsible. Bhutto wrote about Pakistani state-sanctioned violence in her memoir, Songs of Blood and Sword, which was published in 2010 and became a bestseller in her home country.When I ask how she feels about her aunt's legacy now, she politely declines to expand. \"The nice thing about doing fiction is that I don't feel I have to answer all these heavy political questions.\"Could Benazir have done more to empower ordinary women when she was in power? \"The only safety that women have in this country is with each other,\" Bhutto replies. \"They've never had it from power.\"At one point in her novel, Bhutto writes of a character feeling trapped by \"the ghosts of history\". Does she feel the same? \"I don't think it's just me,\" she says. \"This is a very young country \u2013 only 67 years old. With any country negotiating the future against a very turbulent past, you can't escape your heritage. Those ghosts of history are everywhere.\"", "tags": ["Fiction", "Benazir Bhutto", "Pakistan", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Fatima Bhutto: 'Pakistan produces women with extraordinary spirit'"},{"date": "2013-10-17T08:53:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani newspaper reporter Ayub Khattak was shot dead last week (11 October) because of his investigations into drug-dealing.Khattak, a journalist with the Karak Times, was approached outside his home in Karak, in the north-west province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, by two men on a motorcycle who asked him why he was investigating their drug dealing activities.They drove off, returning 15 minutes later bearing a Kalashnikov, and shot him several times. He died while being taken to hospital.A colleague, Haleem Bukhari, told the Paris-based press freedom watchdog, Reporters Without Borders, that Khattak had filed a story on the sale of drugs and drug-sellers.Local journalists demonstrated in protest at the murder, demanding justice for Khattak, the father of 10 children.Source: Reporters Without Borders", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Pakistan", "Press freedom", "Human rights", "Investigative journalism"], "title": "Pakistan journalist shot dead for investigating drug dealers"},{"date": "2013-10-09T19:03:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The leader of the Pakistani Taliban has used a rare television interview to invite representatives of the government to meet on militant controlled territory for \"serious talks\" about bringing peace to the country.Hakimullah Mehsud, the long-haired leader of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), told a BBC journalist he would guarantee the protection of government negotiators in order to start a discreet dialogue rather than trying to negotiate \"through the media\".\"The proper way to do it is that if the government appoints a formal team, and they sit with us, and we discuss our respective positions,\" he said during an interview at an undisclosed location in the country's north-west that was quite unlike the carefully staged propaganda videos the militant leader has previously featured in.The prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, campaigned in this year's election for peace talks to resolve Pakistan's bloody internal conflict but little progress has been made since senior politicians agreed in September to support such a process.The policy has also been harshly criticised in the media in the wake of a sequence of bloody bomb attacks on civilians.Although the TTP's spokesman had already signalled the group's willingness to talk, the intervention by the country's most wanted man is likely to further stoke controversy.It will hearten those who have argued that the TTP is not responsible for some of most horrific terrorist attacks, including the recent bombings of the church and crowded bazaar in the city of Peshawar.Such attacks on the public were carried about by \"spy agencies\" Mehsud claimed.\"[The] purpose behind those attacks is to move the masses against Taliban so that public support towards us is stopped,\" he said.He complained the government had not yet tried to contact him, highlighting the difficulties of getting talks off the ground.Imran Khan, the head of a leading opposition party, has called for the TTP to be allowed to set up an office where talks could take place saying the discussions \"should not happen in caves\".Mehsud also said neither side should have any publicly announced pre-conditions.But he made clear that any deal acceptable to the TTP would have to lead to the imposition of Sharia law in the country and an end to CIA drone strikes in Pakistan's troubled borderlands which have killed scores of senior militants.It is unlikely the government could deliver either demand even if it wanted to.He said the TTP's campaign would not end after the withdrawal of US combat troops from Afghanistan by the end of next year. Many Pakistanis blame the US presence in the region for the instability that has plagued the country in the last decade.\"America is one of the two reasons we have to conduct a jihad against Pakistan,\" he said. \"The other reason is that Pakistan's system is unIslamic, and we want it replaced with an Islamic system.\"Mehsud became leader of the TTP in 2009 which has claimed responsibility for attacks in both Pakistan, Afghanistan and around the world, including a failed bombing of Times Square in New York.Implicated in many crimes, the US government has offered a $5m reward for assistance leading to his arrest.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "World news"], "title": "Taliban leader invites Pakistan government to 'serious talks'"},{"date": "2013-12-26T17:33:57Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Friends of a London student who was kidnapped in Pakistan almost two years ago have spoken for the first time about their growing fears for his safety.Giovanni Lo Porto, 38, who studied at London Metropolitan University, travelled to the Punjab region in January 2012 to take up a position as a humanitarian aid worker. But soon after his arrival Lo Porto and a German colleague, Bernd M\u00fchlenbeck, were abducted.Apart from one short video appeal by M\u00fchlenbeck released last Christmas, neither man has been heard from.Sarah Neal, a fellow student and close friend of Lo Porto, said: \"I am incredibly worried about him. It's been 22 months now and we have no way of knowing how his captors treat him. I just want him back.\"Staff and students from London Met have not spoken out until now in the hope that the authorities in Italy, where Lo Porto was born, would be able to negotiate his release. But after almost two years without news, they have decided to break their silence.\"When Giovanni was abducted we hoped that he would be returned through quiet diplomacy,\" said Professor Mike Newman, who taught Lo Porto at London Met. \"But he has now been held in Pakistan for nearly two years and we agree with his friends and supporters in Italy who are calling for an end to the policy of silence.\"After graduating from the peace and conflict studies course at London Met in 2010, Lo Porto, an experienced aid worker, joined short-term projects in the Central African Republic and Haiti before travelling to Pakistan to help rebuild an area hit by severe flooding.According to friends, he fell in love with the region and worked to improve water supplies and sanitation in the Punjab, returning again at the beginning of 2012.Newman last heard from Lo Porto when he got in touch shortly after arriving in Pakistan. \"He told me: 'I'm happy to be back in Asia and Pakistan, I do love the people, the culture and the food of this part of the world',\" said Newman. \"Pakistan was his real love and he felt he had done a good job there establishing positive relations with the local population and staff. He was so delighted to be back.\"Newman said Giovanni is a \"warm, friendly, open-minded person\" who was very popular with staff and students.\"He enriched the discussions for all of us by drawing on his varied experience of working in complex situations in many parts of the world. His approach was always questioning and he certainly had no time for simplistic western policy agendas,\" said Newman.Neal said Lo Porto was an incredibly supportive friend and went out of his way to help others. \"He came to London Met on the day we had to hand in our dissertation purely to help others \u2013 he'd already submitted his thesis the day before. So that's what he did: he edited, proof-read, and helped bind them until submission closed.\"He is incredibly loyal to his friends and shows that in many small and big ways, you can always rely on him.\"She said his friends were growing increasingly concerned about his well-being. \"I am worried that they'll break him \u2013 physically and mentally,\" Neal said. \"Although sometimes I think that if anyone could be friends with his captors, it would be Giovanni.\"Lo Porto's friends have now launched a petition for his return and are calling on anyone with influence to help secure his release.Newman said: \"It is tragic that such people, with both expertise and a genuine passion for humanitarian work, should be held in this way. On this anniversary of their seizure in Multan, I call on all those who have influence in the area to bring about the return of Giovanni Lo Porto and Bernd M\u00fchlenbeck to their friends and families.\"The Farnesina, Italy's foreign ministry, declined to comment. Its crisis unit is in contact with Lo Porto's family but the authorities are understood to want to maintain as much discretion as possible surrounding the case due to its \"very delicate\" nature.In Italy, a petition calling on the Italian president, Giorgio Napolitano, and the prime minister, Enrico Letta, to ensure \"all possible efforts\" are made to bring about Lo Porto's release has been signed by nearly 48,000 people.But Pietro Barbieri, chairman of the National Third Sector Forum (FNTS) and one of the people who drafted the petition, said that in general the case has received very little attention in Italy, and that this was the reason why the petition was so necessary.\"He is not a journalist for a big newspaper. He is not a member of a big Italian NGO. He is not a member of the military. He is an Italian citizen \u2013 capable, on the ball \u2013 who, at the same time, however, works for a foreign NGO,\" he said. \"There is no one [in public] pushing it [his case].\"Urging Letta to enter into the efforts personally, Barbieri said that he had received a letter from the foreign ministry assuring him that \"every effort\" was being made and that the case was being treated as a priority.But, he said, the time had come for Letta to act. \"He has every possibility to do so,\" Barbieri said.He added: \"We believe our country has to take charge, but not only the institutions but the media, the opinion-formers, the population in general. It is absurd that the Lo Porto case is never discussed.\"This is someone who has been in captivity for nearly two years now. He is, among other things, an expert; not some kind of tourist, but someone with internationally recognised abilities.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Aid", "Society", "Global development", "World news", "Italy", "Europe", "London Metropolitan University", "Education"], "title": "Giovanni Lo Porto's friends break cover two years after his kidnap in Pakistan"},{"date": "2013-12-09T16:17:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pentagon chief Chuck Hagel attempted to bolster the US's fraught relationship with Pakistan during a rare visit to the country \u2013 the first by a US defence secretary in more than three\u00a0years.With Pakistan running dangerously low on foreign exchange, and the US wanting Islamabad's assistance to help wind down the 12-year war in Afghanistan, both sides are keen for strong ties.But Hagel's trip was overshadowed by yet another row over CIA drone strikes, which has led to the suspension of trucks carrying vital supplies to troops in Afghanistan along certain roads in Pakistan. A government statement did not say Nawaz Sharif, the prime minister, demanded an end to US attacks.But he conveyed Pakistan's \"deep concern over continuing US drone strikes\", stressing that they were \"counter-productive to our efforts to combat terrorism and extremism on an enduring basis\".There are continued suspicions that Pakistan's army, and perhaps even civilian leaders, continue to give some level of consent to the officially clandestine CIA programme, which the US regards as the only effective way to tackle militant groups holed up on Pakistan's unruly western border. But sporadic air strikes continue to cause intense anger and dismay in Pakistan.One was the killing of Hakimullah Mehsud, the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, on 1 November. Although his violent campaign against the Pakistani state meant he had long been regarded as public enemy number one, his death came at a time when the government had been attempting to initiate peace talks with militants.Another attack on 21 November on a site associated with the feared Afghan insurgent group the Haqqani Network, caused further outrage, in part because it took place inside Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the province where opposition politician Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) leads the ruling coalition government.The attack prompted Khan to order an unofficial blockade of Nato convoys travelling through the province.Although it was unclear how effective the protest had been, last week Nato announced that it had suspended all cargo travelling along that route to ensure the safety of drivers.A statement released by the US embassy in Islamabad said Hagel had \"raised the importance of keeping the ground supply routes out of Afghanistan open\", in addition to discussing the problems of Afghan insurgents hiding in Pakistan.\"The secretary stressed that as International Security Assistance Forces draw down over the course of 2014, US and coalition partners remain resolved to not let militants destabilise the region,\" the statement said.Hagel also met Raheel Sharif, the recently appointed head of Pakistan's army, which has a significant say in national policy towards Afghanistan.Pakistan has attempted to improve relations with the US for several months. But, with foreign currency reserves shrinking fast, it is in a weak position to make demands of the US.In a sign of growing desperation, the finance minister last week asked the US ambassador for cash payments under the \"Coalition Support Fund\" programme that is designed to help Pakistan recoup the costs of supporting the US-led effort in Afghanistan.But CSF funds have been held up in the past during low points in the relationship between the two sides, particularly during a seven-month ban on Nato supplies in 2012 following the killing by US aircraft of Pakistani soldiers on the Afghan border.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Chuck Hagel", "Drones (military)", "CIA", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "Imran Khan"], "title": "Pentagon chief in rare Pakistan visit amid more rows over CIA drone strikes"},{"date": "2014-01-28T16:32:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An attempt to launch the memoir of the Pakistani schoolgirl who became a global icon after being shot in the head by the Taliban in her home province has been scuppered by opposition from local politicians.Malala Yousafzai's book was due to be launched at an event on Monday at Peshawar University but organisers were forced to scrap it after the intervention of two senior members of the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KP).The episode underlines the antipathy among many Pakistanis towards the 16-year-old who campaigned for education in the face of Taliban opposition.While she has been hailed in the west for her campaign against extremism, in Pakistan she is widely regarded with suspicion, with many people believing conspiracy theories that the story of the Taliban attempt to assassinate her as she travelled to school in October 2012 was untrue or exaggerated.The event that was to have been held at the university's Central Asia Area Study Centre had been intended to raise awareness of a book which is not widely available in Pakistan.Few booksellers dare stock it after the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which is particularly strong in KP, threatened to attack shops selling copies of I Am Malala.Organisers said they came under enormous pressure to abandon the event, with ministers, the police and university officials all intervening.\"They all made so many excuses,\" said Khadim Hussain, director of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation and one of the organisers. \"First they said it was a security risk, then they said the book was not relevant to the study centre.\"He said opponents of the book launch simply wanted to please the Taliban.The provincial government is controlled by a coalition comprising a hardline Islamist party called Jamaat-e-Islami (JI) and the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) led by Imran Khan, a former cricket player whom critics often accuse of pandering to the country's religious right.Provincial ministers from both parties approached the Area Study Centre to demand the event be cancelled.They later said they viewed the event as party political because of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation's affiliation with the Awami National party, a left-leaning secular party that competes with the PTI and JI in the province.Writing on Twitter, Imran Khan said he was taken aback by the decision to stop the book launch. \"I am at a complete loss to understand why Malala's book launch in Peshawar was stopped. PTI stands 4 freedom of expression & debate,\" he tweeted.The party's spokesperson later said there had been \"no ban or stoppage of launch\" of the book, but there was \"an issue of venue\".Yousafzai was shot in October 2012 but survived long enough to be moved to the UK for further surgery and to continue her education. She later became the youngest ever nominee for the Nobel peace prize.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "World news", "Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "Taliban"], "title": "Malala Yousafzai memoir launch scrapped in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-28T16:32:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An attempt to launch the memoir of the Pakistani schoolgirl who became a global icon after being shot in the head by the Taliban in her home province has been scuppered by opposition from local politicians.Malala Yousafzai's book was due to be launched at an event on Monday at Peshawar University but organisers were forced to scrap it after the intervention of two senior members of the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KP).The episode underlines the antipathy among many Pakistanis towards the 16-year-old who campaigned for education in the face of Taliban opposition.While she has been hailed in the west for her campaign against extremism, in Pakistan she is widely regarded with suspicion, with many people believing conspiracy theories that the story of the Taliban attempt to assassinate her as she travelled to school in October 2012 was untrue or exaggerated.The event that was to have been held at the university's Central Asia Area Study Centre had been intended to raise awareness of a book which is not widely available in Pakistan.Few booksellers dare stock it after the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which is particularly strong in KP, threatened to attack shops selling copies of I Am Malala.Organisers said they came under enormous pressure to abandon the event, with ministers, the police and university officials all intervening.\"They all made so many excuses,\" said Khadim Hussain, director of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation and one of the organisers. \"First they said it was a security risk, then they said the book was not relevant to the study centre.\"He said opponents of the book launch simply wanted to please the Taliban.The provincial government is controlled by a coalition comprising a hardline Islamist party called Jamaat-e-Islami (JI) and the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) led by Imran Khan, a former cricket player whom critics often accuse of pandering to the country's religious right.Provincial ministers from both parties approached the Area Study Centre to demand the event be cancelled.They later said they viewed the event as party political because of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation's affiliation with the Awami National party, a left-leaning secular party that competes with the PTI and JI in the province.Writing on Twitter, Imran Khan said he was taken aback by the decision to stop the book launch. \"I am at a complete loss to understand why Malala's book launch in Peshawar was stopped. PTI stands 4 freedom of expression & debate,\" he tweeted.The party's spokesperson later said there had been \"no ban or stoppage of launch\" of the book, but there was \"an issue of venue\".Yousafzai was shot in October 2012 but survived long enough to be moved to the UK for further surgery and to continue her education. She later became the youngest ever nominee for the Nobel peace prize.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "World news", "Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "Taliban"], "title": "Malala Yousafzai memoir launch scrapped in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-28T12:58:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is being put on a \"war footing\" to counter a surge in terrorism, according to a senior leader in the ruling party who promised military strikes against the Taliban and brushed aside human rights fears about draconian new anti-terror laws.Rana Sanaullah, the law minister of Punjab province and one of the prime minister's closest confidants, told the Guardian the time had finally come to \"smash\" militant safe havens.A spike in Taliban-led violence has prompted a dramatic rethink in policy from a government long determined to avoid a confrontation with the country's militant groups.Expectations are growing of a long-delayed military push against al-Qaida-linked groups operating from North Waziristan, a semi-autonomous tribal area on the Afghan border.In a meeting on Monday evening of assembly members of the governing Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz (PML-N), a majority voted to support a military operation against militants.\"Without eliminating terrorism and extremism we cannot place Pakistan on fast track of development,\" the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, told the gathering of parliamentarians.The government has not announced exactly what it plans to do, leading some sceptics to doubt their resolve.Sanaullah said a decision had been made to launch military operations but the army would be left to decide exactly what form any operation would take.Opposition politicians have warned a draconian new anti-terror law promulgated without parliamentary approval last week could turn the country into a \"police state\". Among the provisions of the Protection of Pakistan Ordinance (PPO) are secret courts, greater shoot-to-kill freedoms for the police, house raids without warrants and the detention of terror suspects without charge for three months.Sanaullah said: \"This should have been done 10 years ago. Even if it is 5% misused, then we must support it anyway because without it there is no chance that you can fight terrorists.\"Pakistan's law enforcement agencies have long been accused of illegally detaining \"missing persons\" for years on end and abusing prisoners in their custody.\"I think what will be done will be no worse than what has happened in Guant\u00e1namo Bay,\" Sanaullah said when asked about the risk of terror suspects being tortured.Multiple accusations of abuse of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo have been made against the US.Sanaullah's strikingly tough language comes after a year of studied inaction on terrorism by the PML-N, the governing party that won a landslide victory in general elections in May.Ever since then, the government has resisted pressure to unleash the army on a bewildering range of militant groups responsible for near-daily attacks on civilians, religious minorities, journalists, polio vaccinators and the security forces.Sharif has held firm to a policy of trying to negotiate with militants, who last year were declared to be \"stakeholders\" in a potential peace process.But a spate of deadly attacks in recent weeks on military targets by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has prompted the government to dramatically toughen its rhetoric.Last week the armed forces used jets and helicopter gunships to assault targets in North Waziristan that the army claimed were militant hideouts.In a sign of the government's newfound pugnaciousness, Sanaullah even offered a qualified defence of drones, the CIA's unmanned attack aircraft, which Pakistan's politicians have publicly railed against for years.\"We believe that drone attacks damage the terrorists, very much,\" he said, admitting much of the outrage over drones was contrived. \"Inside, everyone believes that drone attacks are good; but outside, everyone condemn because the drones are American.\"Mustafa Qadri, a Pakistan expert from Amnesty International, said with the PPO the government was \"creating some of the most repressive security laws in Pakistan's history\".\"Rather than making Pakistan safe, these laws risk inflaming an already volatile situation and creating an environment of widespread abuse,\" he said.Sanaullah heaped scorn on such misgivings, saying rights groups were \"serving the cause of the Taliban\". \"This has to be enforced on war footing,\" he said. \"The NGOs and human rights forces will come in, and they can delay these things.\"Many analysts have long doubted that the PML-N will ever order a comprehensive campaign against militancy and extremism, arguing that the party was purely concerned to shield from violence wealthy Punjab province, the party's political heartland.PML-N bosses, including Sanaullah, have been accused of striking secret non-aggression pacts with militant groups in the past, to keep Punjab relatively secure.But Sanaullah said the government's new stance on militancy had to wait for the retirement of three critical figures late last year: that of the former president Asif Ali Zardari, the former chief justice Iftikhar Chaudhry, who became infamous for interfering in government business, and the former army chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.\"If Chief Justice Chaudhry was in office now, he would have struck down the PPO the next day,\" he said. He also claimed Kayani, who served as head of Pakistan's powerful army for six years, had been unwilling to tackle the TTP, despite persistent claims by military sources that the former army chief was frustrated by the lack of action.To protect Punjab, \"operations\" will be mounted in 174 areas of the province where communities of Pashtuns, from the country's more volatile north-west, have settled, Sanaullah said. \"We feel apprehension that they will retaliate in Punjab.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "Afghanistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'on war footing to smash Taliban'"},{"date": "2014-01-28T16:32:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An attempt to launch the memoir of the Pakistani schoolgirl who became a global icon after being shot in the head by the Taliban in her home province has been scuppered by opposition from local politicians.Malala Yousafzai's book was due to be launched at an event on Monday at Peshawar University but organisers were forced to scrap it after the intervention of two senior members of the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KP).The episode underlines the antipathy among many Pakistanis towards the 16-year-old who campaigned for education in the face of Taliban opposition.While she has been hailed in the west for her campaign against extremism, in Pakistan she is widely regarded with suspicion, with many people believing conspiracy theories that the story of the Taliban attempt to assassinate her as she travelled to school in October 2012 was untrue or exaggerated.The event that was to have been held at the university's Central Asia Area Study Centre had been intended to raise awareness of a book which is not widely available in Pakistan.Few booksellers dare stock it after the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which is particularly strong in KP, threatened to attack shops selling copies of I Am Malala.Organisers said they came under enormous pressure to abandon the event, with ministers, the police and university officials all intervening.\"They all made so many excuses,\" said Khadim Hussain, director of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation and one of the organisers. \"First they said it was a security risk, then they said the book was not relevant to the study centre.\"He said opponents of the book launch simply wanted to please the Taliban.The provincial government is controlled by a coalition comprising a hardline Islamist party called Jamaat-e-Islami (JI) and the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) led by Imran Khan, a former cricket player whom critics often accuse of pandering to the country's religious right.Provincial ministers from both parties approached the Area Study Centre to demand the event be cancelled.They later said they viewed the event as party political because of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation's affiliation with the Awami National party, a left-leaning secular party that competes with the PTI and JI in the province.Writing on Twitter, Imran Khan said he was taken aback by the decision to stop the book launch. \"I am at a complete loss to understand why Malala's book launch in Peshawar was stopped. PTI stands 4 freedom of expression & debate,\" he tweeted.The party's spokesperson later said there had been \"no ban or stoppage of launch\" of the book, but there was \"an issue of venue\".Yousafzai was shot in October 2012 but survived long enough to be moved to the UK for further surgery and to continue her education. She later became the youngest ever nominee for the Nobel peace prize.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "World news", "Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "Taliban"], "title": "Malala Yousafzai memoir launch scrapped in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-28T12:58:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is being put on a \"war footing\" to counter a surge in terrorism, according to a senior leader in the ruling party who promised military strikes against the Taliban and brushed aside human rights fears about draconian new anti-terror laws.Rana Sanaullah, the law minister of Punjab province and one of the prime minister's closest confidants, told the Guardian the time had finally come to \"smash\" militant safe havens.A spike in Taliban-led violence has prompted a dramatic rethink in policy from a government long determined to avoid a confrontation with the country's militant groups.Expectations are growing of a long-delayed military push against al-Qaida-linked groups operating from North Waziristan, a semi-autonomous tribal area on the Afghan border.In a meeting on Monday evening of assembly members of the governing Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz (PML-N), a majority voted to support a military operation against militants.\"Without eliminating terrorism and extremism we cannot place Pakistan on fast track of development,\" the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, told the gathering of parliamentarians.The government has not announced exactly what it plans to do, leading some sceptics to doubt their resolve.Sanaullah said a decision had been made to launch military operations but the army would be left to decide exactly what form any operation would take.Opposition politicians have warned a draconian new anti-terror law promulgated without parliamentary approval last week could turn the country into a \"police state\". Among the provisions of the Protection of Pakistan Ordinance (PPO) are secret courts, greater shoot-to-kill freedoms for the police, house raids without warrants and the detention of terror suspects without charge for three months.Sanaullah said: \"This should have been done 10 years ago. Even if it is 5% misused, then we must support it anyway because without it there is no chance that you can fight terrorists.\"Pakistan's law enforcement agencies have long been accused of illegally detaining \"missing persons\" for years on end and abusing prisoners in their custody.\"I think what will be done will be no worse than what has happened in Guant\u00e1namo Bay,\" Sanaullah said when asked about the risk of terror suspects being tortured.Multiple accusations of abuse of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo have been made against the US.Sanaullah's strikingly tough language comes after a year of studied inaction on terrorism by the PML-N, the governing party that won a landslide victory in general elections in May.Ever since then, the government has resisted pressure to unleash the army on a bewildering range of militant groups responsible for near-daily attacks on civilians, religious minorities, journalists, polio vaccinators and the security forces.Sharif has held firm to a policy of trying to negotiate with militants, who last year were declared to be \"stakeholders\" in a potential peace process.But a spate of deadly attacks in recent weeks on military targets by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has prompted the government to dramatically toughen its rhetoric.Last week the armed forces used jets and helicopter gunships to assault targets in North Waziristan that the army claimed were militant hideouts.In a sign of the government's newfound pugnaciousness, Sanaullah even offered a qualified defence of drones, the CIA's unmanned attack aircraft, which Pakistan's politicians have publicly railed against for years.\"We believe that drone attacks damage the terrorists, very much,\" he said, admitting much of the outrage over drones was contrived. \"Inside, everyone believes that drone attacks are good; but outside, everyone condemn because the drones are American.\"Mustafa Qadri, a Pakistan expert from Amnesty International, said with the PPO the government was \"creating some of the most repressive security laws in Pakistan's history\".\"Rather than making Pakistan safe, these laws risk inflaming an already volatile situation and creating an environment of widespread abuse,\" he said.Sanaullah heaped scorn on such misgivings, saying rights groups were \"serving the cause of the Taliban\". \"This has to be enforced on war footing,\" he said. \"The NGOs and human rights forces will come in, and they can delay these things.\"Many analysts have long doubted that the PML-N will ever order a comprehensive campaign against militancy and extremism, arguing that the party was purely concerned to shield from violence wealthy Punjab province, the party's political heartland.PML-N bosses, including Sanaullah, have been accused of striking secret non-aggression pacts with militant groups in the past, to keep Punjab relatively secure.But Sanaullah said the government's new stance on militancy had to wait for the retirement of three critical figures late last year: that of the former president Asif Ali Zardari, the former chief justice Iftikhar Chaudhry, who became infamous for interfering in government business, and the former army chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.\"If Chief Justice Chaudhry was in office now, he would have struck down the PPO the next day,\" he said. He also claimed Kayani, who served as head of Pakistan's powerful army for six years, had been unwilling to tackle the TTP, despite persistent claims by military sources that the former army chief was frustrated by the lack of action.To protect Punjab, \"operations\" will be mounted in 174 areas of the province where communities of Pashtuns, from the country's more volatile north-west, have settled, Sanaullah said. \"We feel apprehension that they will retaliate in Punjab.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "Afghanistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'on war footing to smash Taliban'"},{"date": "2014-01-24T13:26:41Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani court has convicted a British man with a history of mental illness of blasphemy and sentenced him to death.The prosecutor Javed Gul said Mohammed Asghar had been arrested in Rawalpindi in 2010 for claiming to be the prophet Muhammad. He said a judge sentenced Asghar, who is of Pakistani origin, on Thursday.His legal team in Pakistan said he suffered from mental illness and that they would appeal against the conviction.Scores of people have been arrested under Pakistan's harsh blasphemy laws, which rights groups say are too broad and vague. The penalty can be life imprisonment or death, although the latter is rarely carried out in Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Briton sentenced to death in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-28T16:32:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An attempt to launch the memoir of the Pakistani schoolgirl who became a global icon after being shot in the head by the Taliban in her home province has been scuppered by opposition from local politicians.Malala Yousafzai's book was due to be launched at an event on Monday at Peshawar University but organisers were forced to scrap it after the intervention of two senior members of the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KP).The episode underlines the antipathy among many Pakistanis towards the 16-year-old who campaigned for education in the face of Taliban opposition.While she has been hailed in the west for her campaign against extremism, in Pakistan she is widely regarded with suspicion, with many people believing conspiracy theories that the story of the Taliban attempt to assassinate her as she travelled to school in October 2012 was untrue or exaggerated.The event that was to have been held at the university's Central Asia Area Study Centre had been intended to raise awareness of a book which is not widely available in Pakistan.Few booksellers dare stock it after the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which is particularly strong in KP, threatened to attack shops selling copies of I Am Malala.Organisers said they came under enormous pressure to abandon the event, with ministers, the police and university officials all intervening.\"They all made so many excuses,\" said Khadim Hussain, director of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation and one of the organisers. \"First they said it was a security risk, then they said the book was not relevant to the study centre.\"He said opponents of the book launch simply wanted to please the Taliban.The provincial government is controlled by a coalition comprising a hardline Islamist party called Jamaat-e-Islami (JI) and the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) led by Imran Khan, a former cricket player whom critics often accuse of pandering to the country's religious right.Provincial ministers from both parties approached the Area Study Centre to demand the event be cancelled.They later said they viewed the event as party political because of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation's affiliation with the Awami National party, a left-leaning secular party that competes with the PTI and JI in the province.Writing on Twitter, Imran Khan said he was taken aback by the decision to stop the book launch. \"I am at a complete loss to understand why Malala's book launch in Peshawar was stopped. PTI stands 4 freedom of expression & debate,\" he tweeted.The party's spokesperson later said there had been \"no ban or stoppage of launch\" of the book, but there was \"an issue of venue\".Yousafzai was shot in October 2012 but survived long enough to be moved to the UK for further surgery and to continue her education. She later became the youngest ever nominee for the Nobel peace prize.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "World news", "Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "Taliban"], "title": "Malala Yousafzai memoir launch scrapped in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-28T12:58:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is being put on a \"war footing\" to counter a surge in terrorism, according to a senior leader in the ruling party who promised military strikes against the Taliban and brushed aside human rights fears about draconian new anti-terror laws.Rana Sanaullah, the law minister of Punjab province and one of the prime minister's closest confidants, told the Guardian the time had finally come to \"smash\" militant safe havens.A spike in Taliban-led violence has prompted a dramatic rethink in policy from a government long determined to avoid a confrontation with the country's militant groups.Expectations are growing of a long-delayed military push against al-Qaida-linked groups operating from North Waziristan, a semi-autonomous tribal area on the Afghan border.In a meeting on Monday evening of assembly members of the governing Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz (PML-N), a majority voted to support a military operation against militants.\"Without eliminating terrorism and extremism we cannot place Pakistan on fast track of development,\" the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, told the gathering of parliamentarians.The government has not announced exactly what it plans to do, leading some sceptics to doubt their resolve.Sanaullah said a decision had been made to launch military operations but the army would be left to decide exactly what form any operation would take.Opposition politicians have warned a draconian new anti-terror law promulgated without parliamentary approval last week could turn the country into a \"police state\". Among the provisions of the Protection of Pakistan Ordinance (PPO) are secret courts, greater shoot-to-kill freedoms for the police, house raids without warrants and the detention of terror suspects without charge for three months.Sanaullah said: \"This should have been done 10 years ago. Even if it is 5% misused, then we must support it anyway because without it there is no chance that you can fight terrorists.\"Pakistan's law enforcement agencies have long been accused of illegally detaining \"missing persons\" for years on end and abusing prisoners in their custody.\"I think what will be done will be no worse than what has happened in Guant\u00e1namo Bay,\" Sanaullah said when asked about the risk of terror suspects being tortured.Multiple accusations of abuse of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo have been made against the US.Sanaullah's strikingly tough language comes after a year of studied inaction on terrorism by the PML-N, the governing party that won a landslide victory in general elections in May.Ever since then, the government has resisted pressure to unleash the army on a bewildering range of militant groups responsible for near-daily attacks on civilians, religious minorities, journalists, polio vaccinators and the security forces.Sharif has held firm to a policy of trying to negotiate with militants, who last year were declared to be \"stakeholders\" in a potential peace process.But a spate of deadly attacks in recent weeks on military targets by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has prompted the government to dramatically toughen its rhetoric.Last week the armed forces used jets and helicopter gunships to assault targets in North Waziristan that the army claimed were militant hideouts.In a sign of the government's newfound pugnaciousness, Sanaullah even offered a qualified defence of drones, the CIA's unmanned attack aircraft, which Pakistan's politicians have publicly railed against for years.\"We believe that drone attacks damage the terrorists, very much,\" he said, admitting much of the outrage over drones was contrived. \"Inside, everyone believes that drone attacks are good; but outside, everyone condemn because the drones are American.\"Mustafa Qadri, a Pakistan expert from Amnesty International, said with the PPO the government was \"creating some of the most repressive security laws in Pakistan's history\".\"Rather than making Pakistan safe, these laws risk inflaming an already volatile situation and creating an environment of widespread abuse,\" he said.Sanaullah heaped scorn on such misgivings, saying rights groups were \"serving the cause of the Taliban\". \"This has to be enforced on war footing,\" he said. \"The NGOs and human rights forces will come in, and they can delay these things.\"Many analysts have long doubted that the PML-N will ever order a comprehensive campaign against militancy and extremism, arguing that the party was purely concerned to shield from violence wealthy Punjab province, the party's political heartland.PML-N bosses, including Sanaullah, have been accused of striking secret non-aggression pacts with militant groups in the past, to keep Punjab relatively secure.But Sanaullah said the government's new stance on militancy had to wait for the retirement of three critical figures late last year: that of the former president Asif Ali Zardari, the former chief justice Iftikhar Chaudhry, who became infamous for interfering in government business, and the former army chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.\"If Chief Justice Chaudhry was in office now, he would have struck down the PPO the next day,\" he said. He also claimed Kayani, who served as head of Pakistan's powerful army for six years, had been unwilling to tackle the TTP, despite persistent claims by military sources that the former army chief was frustrated by the lack of action.To protect Punjab, \"operations\" will be mounted in 174 areas of the province where communities of Pashtuns, from the country's more volatile north-west, have settled, Sanaullah said. \"We feel apprehension that they will retaliate in Punjab.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "Afghanistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'on war footing to smash Taliban'"},{"date": "2014-01-24T13:26:41Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani court has convicted a British man with a history of mental illness of blasphemy and sentenced him to death.The prosecutor Javed Gul said Mohammed Asghar had been arrested in Rawalpindi in 2010 for claiming to be the prophet Muhammad. He said a judge sentenced Asghar, who is of Pakistani origin, on Thursday.His legal team in Pakistan said he suffered from mental illness and that they would appeal against the conviction.Scores of people have been arrested under Pakistan's harsh blasphemy laws, which rights groups say are too broad and vague. The penalty can be life imprisonment or death, although the latter is rarely carried out in Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Briton sentenced to death in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-20T17:30:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Amid a growing energy crisis, Pakistan is installing a 1.8 megawatt solar power plant at the Parliament House building in the capital city Islamabad.Work on the project began in the first week of January. The initial cost - which is being funded by the Chinese government as a friendship gesture \u2013 is estimated at $60m (\u00a336.5). The solar plant is projected to save almost $1m each year in utility bills for the parliament complex.\u201cThis is the first project of its kind (in a public building) in Pakistan, and later more public buildings will be converted to solar power to overcome the energy crisis,\u201d said Munawar Abbas Shah, a special secretary at the National Assembly.\u00a0Beijing has formally approved the funding for the parliamentary solar plant, so \u201cPakistan is not going to spend even a single penny,\u201d Shah added.Although Pakistan has no plans to introduce solar power on a large scale, China recently helped Punjab province set up a solar park of over 10,000 acres (around 4,000 hectares) with potential to generate 1,000 MW.Meanwhile, some experts hope that the high-profile example set by the government in Islamabad will encourage uptake of domestic solar energy kits for individual households. Many remain unconnected to the electricity grid, or are suffering from the country\u2019s chronic power shortages. But the government and the private sector must take measures to incentivise consumers, they argue.Parliament House, where both the National Assembly and Senate meet, was designed to be centrally air-conditioned. \u201cThe consumption of electricity in the parliament even jumps over 2 MW in summers when the house is in session,\u201d Shah said.The solar energy plant will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as overcoming the frequent and prolonged power outages that affect the buildings, he added.Pakistan faces a year-round electricity shortfall which rises to about 7,000 MW in the summer months, leaving the majority of its citizens without continuous supplies for extended periods each day.The power situation is worse in off-grid homes. According to a\u00a0World Bank report, around 44% of households are not connected to the grid. More than 80% of these are in rural areas, where a World Bank survey found that 30-45% of households use kerosene as a primary or secondary source of lighting.Promoters of solar power see an opportunity, despite the lack of infrastructure. Iftikhar Ahmad Qaisrani, founder of the Renewable Energy Society for Education, Awareness Research and Community Help (RESEARCH), an Islamabad-based organisation representing the renewable energy sector, said Pakistan is blessed with 320 days of sunshine per year and around eight hours of sun per day.Solar home systems could be a widespread solution, as long as they can be made affordable, he believes.Pakistan\u2019s neighbours India and Bangladesh already benefit significantly from solar power, having converted most of their irrigation systems to this renewable source, which also provides off-grid power to thousands of homes, Qaisrani noted.\u201cInstallation of solar power is a one-time expenditure and people should be encouraged to avail (themselves of) the opportunity,\u201d he added. \u201cThis is the right time to encourage the public and private sector to focus on solar energy and provide off-grid solutions to people living in far-flung areas of the country.\u201dConverting a single home to solar power may cost $3,500 to $4,000, but if correctly installed, the system can provide uninterrupted electricity for 25 years, Qaisrani said.\u201cPakistan can also save millions of dollars (in) foreign reserves per annum just by switching to solar power,\u201d Qaisrani added. The country uses fossil fuels to generate around 65% of its electricity. Over half of that fuel must be imported, and as prices rise on international markets, Pakistan\u2019s electricity is becoming more expensive.Manufacturers in Pakistan rely on imports for the components of solar power systems, as no solar cells or photovoltaic panels are manufactured locally. Solar panels are brought in from Germany, Japan and China, while batteries are both imported and locally manufactured.The cost of components for solar home systems remains high because a 32% import duty is levied on solar photovoltaic cells, 10% on batteries, and 15% on ready-made solar lanterns.Abdul Hanan Siddhu, a solar energy consultant, said solar home systems could be up to 20% cheaper if import duties on solar panels were abolished. In addition, the government should exempt solar components from the general sales tax of 17%, he said.\u201cThe government should also encourage local manufacturers to start cell manufacturing to reduce the cost,\u201d he added. On top of this, government subsidies could help boost the solar off-grid lighting sector.While lack of awareness about the advantages of solar energy has kept the market small,\u00a0people are beginning to turn to solar power\u00a0partly in response to prolonged power outages, Siddhu added.RESEARCH\u2019s Qaisrani acknowledged there is as yet no national strategy to promote solar lanterns or solar home systems, but described parliament\u2019s conversion to solar power as \u201cencouraging\u201d.\u2022 Aamir Saeed is a journalist based in Islamabad", "tags": ["Environment", "Solar power", "Energy", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan parliament turns to solar power"},{"date": "2014-01-28T16:32:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An attempt to launch the memoir of the Pakistani schoolgirl who became a global icon after being shot in the head by the Taliban in her home province has been scuppered by opposition from local politicians.Malala Yousafzai's book was due to be launched at an event on Monday at Peshawar University but organisers were forced to scrap it after the intervention of two senior members of the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KP).The episode underlines the antipathy among many Pakistanis towards the 16-year-old who campaigned for education in the face of Taliban opposition.While she has been hailed in the west for her campaign against extremism, in Pakistan she is widely regarded with suspicion, with many people believing conspiracy theories that the story of the Taliban attempt to assassinate her as she travelled to school in October 2012 was untrue or exaggerated.The event that was to have been held at the university's Central Asia Area Study Centre had been intended to raise awareness of a book which is not widely available in Pakistan.Few booksellers dare stock it after the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which is particularly strong in KP, threatened to attack shops selling copies of I Am Malala.Organisers said they came under enormous pressure to abandon the event, with ministers, the police and university officials all intervening.\"They all made so many excuses,\" said Khadim Hussain, director of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation and one of the organisers. \"First they said it was a security risk, then they said the book was not relevant to the study centre.\"He said opponents of the book launch simply wanted to please the Taliban.The provincial government is controlled by a coalition comprising a hardline Islamist party called Jamaat-e-Islami (JI) and the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) led by Imran Khan, a former cricket player whom critics often accuse of pandering to the country's religious right.Provincial ministers from both parties approached the Area Study Centre to demand the event be cancelled.They later said they viewed the event as party political because of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation's affiliation with the Awami National party, a left-leaning secular party that competes with the PTI and JI in the province.Writing on Twitter, Imran Khan said he was taken aback by the decision to stop the book launch. \"I am at a complete loss to understand why Malala's book launch in Peshawar was stopped. PTI stands 4 freedom of expression & debate,\" he tweeted.The party's spokesperson later said there had been \"no ban or stoppage of launch\" of the book, but there was \"an issue of venue\".Yousafzai was shot in October 2012 but survived long enough to be moved to the UK for further surgery and to continue her education. She later became the youngest ever nominee for the Nobel peace prize.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "World news", "Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "Taliban"], "title": "Malala Yousafzai memoir launch scrapped in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-28T12:58:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is being put on a \"war footing\" to counter a surge in terrorism, according to a senior leader in the ruling party who promised military strikes against the Taliban and brushed aside human rights fears about draconian new anti-terror laws.Rana Sanaullah, the law minister of Punjab province and one of the prime minister's closest confidants, told the Guardian the time had finally come to \"smash\" militant safe havens.A spike in Taliban-led violence has prompted a dramatic rethink in policy from a government long determined to avoid a confrontation with the country's militant groups.Expectations are growing of a long-delayed military push against al-Qaida-linked groups operating from North Waziristan, a semi-autonomous tribal area on the Afghan border.In a meeting on Monday evening of assembly members of the governing Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz (PML-N), a majority voted to support a military operation against militants.\"Without eliminating terrorism and extremism we cannot place Pakistan on fast track of development,\" the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, told the gathering of parliamentarians.The government has not announced exactly what it plans to do, leading some sceptics to doubt their resolve.Sanaullah said a decision had been made to launch military operations but the army would be left to decide exactly what form any operation would take.Opposition politicians have warned a draconian new anti-terror law promulgated without parliamentary approval last week could turn the country into a \"police state\". Among the provisions of the Protection of Pakistan Ordinance (PPO) are secret courts, greater shoot-to-kill freedoms for the police, house raids without warrants and the detention of terror suspects without charge for three months.Sanaullah said: \"This should have been done 10 years ago. Even if it is 5% misused, then we must support it anyway because without it there is no chance that you can fight terrorists.\"Pakistan's law enforcement agencies have long been accused of illegally detaining \"missing persons\" for years on end and abusing prisoners in their custody.\"I think what will be done will be no worse than what has happened in Guant\u00e1namo Bay,\" Sanaullah said when asked about the risk of terror suspects being tortured.Multiple accusations of abuse of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo have been made against the US.Sanaullah's strikingly tough language comes after a year of studied inaction on terrorism by the PML-N, the governing party that won a landslide victory in general elections in May.Ever since then, the government has resisted pressure to unleash the army on a bewildering range of militant groups responsible for near-daily attacks on civilians, religious minorities, journalists, polio vaccinators and the security forces.Sharif has held firm to a policy of trying to negotiate with militants, who last year were declared to be \"stakeholders\" in a potential peace process.But a spate of deadly attacks in recent weeks on military targets by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has prompted the government to dramatically toughen its rhetoric.Last week the armed forces used jets and helicopter gunships to assault targets in North Waziristan that the army claimed were militant hideouts.In a sign of the government's newfound pugnaciousness, Sanaullah even offered a qualified defence of drones, the CIA's unmanned attack aircraft, which Pakistan's politicians have publicly railed against for years.\"We believe that drone attacks damage the terrorists, very much,\" he said, admitting much of the outrage over drones was contrived. \"Inside, everyone believes that drone attacks are good; but outside, everyone condemn because the drones are American.\"Mustafa Qadri, a Pakistan expert from Amnesty International, said with the PPO the government was \"creating some of the most repressive security laws in Pakistan's history\".\"Rather than making Pakistan safe, these laws risk inflaming an already volatile situation and creating an environment of widespread abuse,\" he said.Sanaullah heaped scorn on such misgivings, saying rights groups were \"serving the cause of the Taliban\". \"This has to be enforced on war footing,\" he said. \"The NGOs and human rights forces will come in, and they can delay these things.\"Many analysts have long doubted that the PML-N will ever order a comprehensive campaign against militancy and extremism, arguing that the party was purely concerned to shield from violence wealthy Punjab province, the party's political heartland.PML-N bosses, including Sanaullah, have been accused of striking secret non-aggression pacts with militant groups in the past, to keep Punjab relatively secure.But Sanaullah said the government's new stance on militancy had to wait for the retirement of three critical figures late last year: that of the former president Asif Ali Zardari, the former chief justice Iftikhar Chaudhry, who became infamous for interfering in government business, and the former army chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.\"If Chief Justice Chaudhry was in office now, he would have struck down the PPO the next day,\" he said. He also claimed Kayani, who served as head of Pakistan's powerful army for six years, had been unwilling to tackle the TTP, despite persistent claims by military sources that the former army chief was frustrated by the lack of action.To protect Punjab, \"operations\" will be mounted in 174 areas of the province where communities of Pashtuns, from the country's more volatile north-west, have settled, Sanaullah said. \"We feel apprehension that they will retaliate in Punjab.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "Afghanistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'on war footing to smash Taliban'"},{"date": "2014-01-24T13:26:41Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani court has convicted a British man with a history of mental illness of blasphemy and sentenced him to death.The prosecutor Javed Gul said Mohammed Asghar had been arrested in Rawalpindi in 2010 for claiming to be the prophet Muhammad. He said a judge sentenced Asghar, who is of Pakistani origin, on Thursday.His legal team in Pakistan said he suffered from mental illness and that they would appeal against the conviction.Scores of people have been arrested under Pakistan's harsh blasphemy laws, which rights groups say are too broad and vague. The penalty can be life imprisonment or death, although the latter is rarely carried out in Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Briton sentenced to death in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-20T17:30:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Amid a growing energy crisis, Pakistan is installing a 1.8 megawatt solar power plant at the Parliament House building in the capital city Islamabad.Work on the project began in the first week of January. The initial cost - which is being funded by the Chinese government as a friendship gesture \u2013 is estimated at $60m (\u00a336.5). The solar plant is projected to save almost $1m each year in utility bills for the parliament complex.\u201cThis is the first project of its kind (in a public building) in Pakistan, and later more public buildings will be converted to solar power to overcome the energy crisis,\u201d said Munawar Abbas Shah, a special secretary at the National Assembly.\u00a0Beijing has formally approved the funding for the parliamentary solar plant, so \u201cPakistan is not going to spend even a single penny,\u201d Shah added.Although Pakistan has no plans to introduce solar power on a large scale, China recently helped Punjab province set up a solar park of over 10,000 acres (around 4,000 hectares) with potential to generate 1,000 MW.Meanwhile, some experts hope that the high-profile example set by the government in Islamabad will encourage uptake of domestic solar energy kits for individual households. Many remain unconnected to the electricity grid, or are suffering from the country\u2019s chronic power shortages. But the government and the private sector must take measures to incentivise consumers, they argue.Parliament House, where both the National Assembly and Senate meet, was designed to be centrally air-conditioned. \u201cThe consumption of electricity in the parliament even jumps over 2 MW in summers when the house is in session,\u201d Shah said.The solar energy plant will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as overcoming the frequent and prolonged power outages that affect the buildings, he added.Pakistan faces a year-round electricity shortfall which rises to about 7,000 MW in the summer months, leaving the majority of its citizens without continuous supplies for extended periods each day.The power situation is worse in off-grid homes. According to a\u00a0World Bank report, around 44% of households are not connected to the grid. More than 80% of these are in rural areas, where a World Bank survey found that 30-45% of households use kerosene as a primary or secondary source of lighting.Promoters of solar power see an opportunity, despite the lack of infrastructure. Iftikhar Ahmad Qaisrani, founder of the Renewable Energy Society for Education, Awareness Research and Community Help (RESEARCH), an Islamabad-based organisation representing the renewable energy sector, said Pakistan is blessed with 320 days of sunshine per year and around eight hours of sun per day.Solar home systems could be a widespread solution, as long as they can be made affordable, he believes.Pakistan\u2019s neighbours India and Bangladesh already benefit significantly from solar power, having converted most of their irrigation systems to this renewable source, which also provides off-grid power to thousands of homes, Qaisrani noted.\u201cInstallation of solar power is a one-time expenditure and people should be encouraged to avail (themselves of) the opportunity,\u201d he added. \u201cThis is the right time to encourage the public and private sector to focus on solar energy and provide off-grid solutions to people living in far-flung areas of the country.\u201dConverting a single home to solar power may cost $3,500 to $4,000, but if correctly installed, the system can provide uninterrupted electricity for 25 years, Qaisrani said.\u201cPakistan can also save millions of dollars (in) foreign reserves per annum just by switching to solar power,\u201d Qaisrani added. The country uses fossil fuels to generate around 65% of its electricity. Over half of that fuel must be imported, and as prices rise on international markets, Pakistan\u2019s electricity is becoming more expensive.Manufacturers in Pakistan rely on imports for the components of solar power systems, as no solar cells or photovoltaic panels are manufactured locally. Solar panels are brought in from Germany, Japan and China, while batteries are both imported and locally manufactured.The cost of components for solar home systems remains high because a 32% import duty is levied on solar photovoltaic cells, 10% on batteries, and 15% on ready-made solar lanterns.Abdul Hanan Siddhu, a solar energy consultant, said solar home systems could be up to 20% cheaper if import duties on solar panels were abolished. In addition, the government should exempt solar components from the general sales tax of 17%, he said.\u201cThe government should also encourage local manufacturers to start cell manufacturing to reduce the cost,\u201d he added. On top of this, government subsidies could help boost the solar off-grid lighting sector.While lack of awareness about the advantages of solar energy has kept the market small,\u00a0people are beginning to turn to solar power\u00a0partly in response to prolonged power outages, Siddhu added.RESEARCH\u2019s Qaisrani acknowledged there is as yet no national strategy to promote solar lanterns or solar home systems, but described parliament\u2019s conversion to solar power as \u201cencouraging\u201d.\u2022 Aamir Saeed is a journalist based in Islamabad", "tags": ["Environment", "Solar power", "Energy", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan parliament turns to solar power"},{"date": "2014-01-14T13:30:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Qinetiq, the company spun out of the Ministry of Defence research department, is on the move after reports of a deal with Pakistan.Its shares are up 7.7p or 3.4% to 235.2p following talk that the company has sold $7.8m worth of Talon robots, unmanned ground vehicles used to track bombs and other explosives, to the country. The order was said to comprise 100 of the military robots.", "tags": ["Business", "QinetiQ"], "title": "Qinetiq climbs on reports of Pakistan order"},{"date": "2014-01-28T16:32:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An attempt to launch the memoir of the Pakistani schoolgirl who became a global icon after being shot in the head by the Taliban in her home province has been scuppered by opposition from local politicians.Malala Yousafzai's book was due to be launched at an event on Monday at Peshawar University but organisers were forced to scrap it after the intervention of two senior members of the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KP).The episode underlines the antipathy among many Pakistanis towards the 16-year-old who campaigned for education in the face of Taliban opposition.While she has been hailed in the west for her campaign against extremism, in Pakistan she is widely regarded with suspicion, with many people believing conspiracy theories that the story of the Taliban attempt to assassinate her as she travelled to school in October 2012 was untrue or exaggerated.The event that was to have been held at the university's Central Asia Area Study Centre had been intended to raise awareness of a book which is not widely available in Pakistan.Few booksellers dare stock it after the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which is particularly strong in KP, threatened to attack shops selling copies of I Am Malala.Organisers said they came under enormous pressure to abandon the event, with ministers, the police and university officials all intervening.\"They all made so many excuses,\" said Khadim Hussain, director of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation and one of the organisers. \"First they said it was a security risk, then they said the book was not relevant to the study centre.\"He said opponents of the book launch simply wanted to please the Taliban.The provincial government is controlled by a coalition comprising a hardline Islamist party called Jamaat-e-Islami (JI) and the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) led by Imran Khan, a former cricket player whom critics often accuse of pandering to the country's religious right.Provincial ministers from both parties approached the Area Study Centre to demand the event be cancelled.They later said they viewed the event as party political because of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation's affiliation with the Awami National party, a left-leaning secular party that competes with the PTI and JI in the province.Writing on Twitter, Imran Khan said he was taken aback by the decision to stop the book launch. \"I am at a complete loss to understand why Malala's book launch in Peshawar was stopped. PTI stands 4 freedom of expression & debate,\" he tweeted.The party's spokesperson later said there had been \"no ban or stoppage of launch\" of the book, but there was \"an issue of venue\".Yousafzai was shot in October 2012 but survived long enough to be moved to the UK for further surgery and to continue her education. She later became the youngest ever nominee for the Nobel peace prize.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "World news", "Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "Taliban"], "title": "Malala Yousafzai memoir launch scrapped in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-28T12:58:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is being put on a \"war footing\" to counter a surge in terrorism, according to a senior leader in the ruling party who promised military strikes against the Taliban and brushed aside human rights fears about draconian new anti-terror laws.Rana Sanaullah, the law minister of Punjab province and one of the prime minister's closest confidants, told the Guardian the time had finally come to \"smash\" militant safe havens.A spike in Taliban-led violence has prompted a dramatic rethink in policy from a government long determined to avoid a confrontation with the country's militant groups.Expectations are growing of a long-delayed military push against al-Qaida-linked groups operating from North Waziristan, a semi-autonomous tribal area on the Afghan border.In a meeting on Monday evening of assembly members of the governing Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz (PML-N), a majority voted to support a military operation against militants.\"Without eliminating terrorism and extremism we cannot place Pakistan on fast track of development,\" the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, told the gathering of parliamentarians.The government has not announced exactly what it plans to do, leading some sceptics to doubt their resolve.Sanaullah said a decision had been made to launch military operations but the army would be left to decide exactly what form any operation would take.Opposition politicians have warned a draconian new anti-terror law promulgated without parliamentary approval last week could turn the country into a \"police state\". Among the provisions of the Protection of Pakistan Ordinance (PPO) are secret courts, greater shoot-to-kill freedoms for the police, house raids without warrants and the detention of terror suspects without charge for three months.Sanaullah said: \"This should have been done 10 years ago. Even if it is 5% misused, then we must support it anyway because without it there is no chance that you can fight terrorists.\"Pakistan's law enforcement agencies have long been accused of illegally detaining \"missing persons\" for years on end and abusing prisoners in their custody.\"I think what will be done will be no worse than what has happened in Guant\u00e1namo Bay,\" Sanaullah said when asked about the risk of terror suspects being tortured.Multiple accusations of abuse of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo have been made against the US.Sanaullah's strikingly tough language comes after a year of studied inaction on terrorism by the PML-N, the governing party that won a landslide victory in general elections in May.Ever since then, the government has resisted pressure to unleash the army on a bewildering range of militant groups responsible for near-daily attacks on civilians, religious minorities, journalists, polio vaccinators and the security forces.Sharif has held firm to a policy of trying to negotiate with militants, who last year were declared to be \"stakeholders\" in a potential peace process.But a spate of deadly attacks in recent weeks on military targets by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has prompted the government to dramatically toughen its rhetoric.Last week the armed forces used jets and helicopter gunships to assault targets in North Waziristan that the army claimed were militant hideouts.In a sign of the government's newfound pugnaciousness, Sanaullah even offered a qualified defence of drones, the CIA's unmanned attack aircraft, which Pakistan's politicians have publicly railed against for years.\"We believe that drone attacks damage the terrorists, very much,\" he said, admitting much of the outrage over drones was contrived. \"Inside, everyone believes that drone attacks are good; but outside, everyone condemn because the drones are American.\"Mustafa Qadri, a Pakistan expert from Amnesty International, said with the PPO the government was \"creating some of the most repressive security laws in Pakistan's history\".\"Rather than making Pakistan safe, these laws risk inflaming an already volatile situation and creating an environment of widespread abuse,\" he said.Sanaullah heaped scorn on such misgivings, saying rights groups were \"serving the cause of the Taliban\". \"This has to be enforced on war footing,\" he said. \"The NGOs and human rights forces will come in, and they can delay these things.\"Many analysts have long doubted that the PML-N will ever order a comprehensive campaign against militancy and extremism, arguing that the party was purely concerned to shield from violence wealthy Punjab province, the party's political heartland.PML-N bosses, including Sanaullah, have been accused of striking secret non-aggression pacts with militant groups in the past, to keep Punjab relatively secure.But Sanaullah said the government's new stance on militancy had to wait for the retirement of three critical figures late last year: that of the former president Asif Ali Zardari, the former chief justice Iftikhar Chaudhry, who became infamous for interfering in government business, and the former army chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.\"If Chief Justice Chaudhry was in office now, he would have struck down the PPO the next day,\" he said. He also claimed Kayani, who served as head of Pakistan's powerful army for six years, had been unwilling to tackle the TTP, despite persistent claims by military sources that the former army chief was frustrated by the lack of action.To protect Punjab, \"operations\" will be mounted in 174 areas of the province where communities of Pashtuns, from the country's more volatile north-west, have settled, Sanaullah said. \"We feel apprehension that they will retaliate in Punjab.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "Afghanistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'on war footing to smash Taliban'"},{"date": "2014-01-24T13:26:41Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani court has convicted a British man with a history of mental illness of blasphemy and sentenced him to death.The prosecutor Javed Gul said Mohammed Asghar had been arrested in Rawalpindi in 2010 for claiming to be the prophet Muhammad. He said a judge sentenced Asghar, who is of Pakistani origin, on Thursday.His legal team in Pakistan said he suffered from mental illness and that they would appeal against the conviction.Scores of people have been arrested under Pakistan's harsh blasphemy laws, which rights groups say are too broad and vague. The penalty can be life imprisonment or death, although the latter is rarely carried out in Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Briton sentenced to death in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-20T17:30:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Amid a growing energy crisis, Pakistan is installing a 1.8 megawatt solar power plant at the Parliament House building in the capital city Islamabad.Work on the project began in the first week of January. The initial cost - which is being funded by the Chinese government as a friendship gesture \u2013 is estimated at $60m (\u00a336.5). The solar plant is projected to save almost $1m each year in utility bills for the parliament complex.\u201cThis is the first project of its kind (in a public building) in Pakistan, and later more public buildings will be converted to solar power to overcome the energy crisis,\u201d said Munawar Abbas Shah, a special secretary at the National Assembly.\u00a0Beijing has formally approved the funding for the parliamentary solar plant, so \u201cPakistan is not going to spend even a single penny,\u201d Shah added.Although Pakistan has no plans to introduce solar power on a large scale, China recently helped Punjab province set up a solar park of over 10,000 acres (around 4,000 hectares) with potential to generate 1,000 MW.Meanwhile, some experts hope that the high-profile example set by the government in Islamabad will encourage uptake of domestic solar energy kits for individual households. Many remain unconnected to the electricity grid, or are suffering from the country\u2019s chronic power shortages. But the government and the private sector must take measures to incentivise consumers, they argue.Parliament House, where both the National Assembly and Senate meet, was designed to be centrally air-conditioned. \u201cThe consumption of electricity in the parliament even jumps over 2 MW in summers when the house is in session,\u201d Shah said.The solar energy plant will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as overcoming the frequent and prolonged power outages that affect the buildings, he added.Pakistan faces a year-round electricity shortfall which rises to about 7,000 MW in the summer months, leaving the majority of its citizens without continuous supplies for extended periods each day.The power situation is worse in off-grid homes. According to a\u00a0World Bank report, around 44% of households are not connected to the grid. More than 80% of these are in rural areas, where a World Bank survey found that 30-45% of households use kerosene as a primary or secondary source of lighting.Promoters of solar power see an opportunity, despite the lack of infrastructure. Iftikhar Ahmad Qaisrani, founder of the Renewable Energy Society for Education, Awareness Research and Community Help (RESEARCH), an Islamabad-based organisation representing the renewable energy sector, said Pakistan is blessed with 320 days of sunshine per year and around eight hours of sun per day.Solar home systems could be a widespread solution, as long as they can be made affordable, he believes.Pakistan\u2019s neighbours India and Bangladesh already benefit significantly from solar power, having converted most of their irrigation systems to this renewable source, which also provides off-grid power to thousands of homes, Qaisrani noted.\u201cInstallation of solar power is a one-time expenditure and people should be encouraged to avail (themselves of) the opportunity,\u201d he added. \u201cThis is the right time to encourage the public and private sector to focus on solar energy and provide off-grid solutions to people living in far-flung areas of the country.\u201dConverting a single home to solar power may cost $3,500 to $4,000, but if correctly installed, the system can provide uninterrupted electricity for 25 years, Qaisrani said.\u201cPakistan can also save millions of dollars (in) foreign reserves per annum just by switching to solar power,\u201d Qaisrani added. The country uses fossil fuels to generate around 65% of its electricity. Over half of that fuel must be imported, and as prices rise on international markets, Pakistan\u2019s electricity is becoming more expensive.Manufacturers in Pakistan rely on imports for the components of solar power systems, as no solar cells or photovoltaic panels are manufactured locally. Solar panels are brought in from Germany, Japan and China, while batteries are both imported and locally manufactured.The cost of components for solar home systems remains high because a 32% import duty is levied on solar photovoltaic cells, 10% on batteries, and 15% on ready-made solar lanterns.Abdul Hanan Siddhu, a solar energy consultant, said solar home systems could be up to 20% cheaper if import duties on solar panels were abolished. In addition, the government should exempt solar components from the general sales tax of 17%, he said.\u201cThe government should also encourage local manufacturers to start cell manufacturing to reduce the cost,\u201d he added. On top of this, government subsidies could help boost the solar off-grid lighting sector.While lack of awareness about the advantages of solar energy has kept the market small,\u00a0people are beginning to turn to solar power\u00a0partly in response to prolonged power outages, Siddhu added.RESEARCH\u2019s Qaisrani acknowledged there is as yet no national strategy to promote solar lanterns or solar home systems, but described parliament\u2019s conversion to solar power as \u201cencouraging\u201d.\u2022 Aamir Saeed is a journalist based in Islamabad", "tags": ["Environment", "Solar power", "Energy", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan parliament turns to solar power"},{"date": "2014-01-14T13:30:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Qinetiq, the company spun out of the Ministry of Defence research department, is on the move after reports of a deal with Pakistan.Its shares are up 7.7p or 3.4% to 235.2p following talk that the company has sold $7.8m worth of Talon robots, unmanned ground vehicles used to track bombs and other explosives, to the country. The order was said to comprise 100 of the military robots.", "tags": ["Business", "QinetiQ"], "title": "Qinetiq climbs on reports of Pakistan order"},{"date": "2014-03-30T12:51:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": " 1.51pm BST Essentially we have an unofficial quarter final stage to this tournament now, as the winner of Pakistan v the West Indies on Tuesday will go through. As for Bangladesh they're out.Also out are Australia, who are about to go and give India some batting practice. We'll have the OBO for that coming straight outta\n\nCompton\n Sydney. Thanks for reading, bye! 1.47pm BST \n\nIn a surprise move, Pakistan have called up Jade Dernbach to bowl the final over and Bangladesh have won.\nUmar Gul will bowl the final over and Mortaza is showing greater competence with the bat than he did today with the ball. He glides first a full one, then a short one, calmly down to third man for four runs. A dot, a scrambled single and Mahmadullah will face the final ball of the game. It's hit down the ground for one and that's that.Updated at 1.50pm BST 1.43pm BST Mortaza again goes over mid-off and gets four with a nice clean hit off of Tanvir. By this point though the required rate is up to 42.00 and, given this isn't England's death bowling attack, nothing that matters is going to happen for the rest of this game. Tanvir, like Shakib and Razzak earlier, is bowling very wide around the wicket and must be close to being no-balled for it. 62 needed from the last over: are you on the edge of your seats? 1.39pm BST The aforementioned Daniel Harris has the MBM for Fulham v Everton. You can switch over to that now; this was done so long ago it's now burnt to an inedible crisp.Umar Gul is flicked away for Mahmudullah, whose name I've been spelling wrong all along, but the relentless Shehzad makes a great stop sliding along the boundary. Ziaur is out first ball and poor old Mortaza walks out to be greeted with a bouncer. He gets his own back, sort of, by belting four over cover.\"I remember series in the 70s when crowds would cheer even good throw ins from opposing teams,\" writes Zia Faruqui. \"The current silence at opposition runs or wickets is shameful.\"There has been absolutely nothing for the home crowd to cheer, Zia. This has been as miserable a tournament as the 1999 World Cup was for England. 1.36pm BST Another short one, a clueless non-shot sees the bat wafted at the ball and a thin edge through to the keeper. 1.31pm BST 91 needed then at 22.75 an over. Ajmal comes around the wicket and finds the top edge as Nasir looks to run it to third man. It's not quite the shot he was trying to play but it gets four to the right region anyhow. Mahmadullah gets in on the free-hitting act, slogging a sweep from outside off stump for a flat six over mid-wicket. Nasir goes from the final ball. 1.31pm BST Another stumping. He walks down, looks to smash it over cover, misses the quicker ball and is stumped. 1.27pm BST Nasir brings out a faint, dusty, faded reminder of his potential as he steps down the track to an over-pitched Afridi delivery and drives it sweetly over mid-off for six. They get a single at the end of the over and look, they've got their hundred.  1.25pm BST This is getting close to a pride-salvaging innings from Shakib as he turns a length ball from Gul to square leg for four. He then slaps it to long off for four more with what looks to me like a leading edge off of a horizontal bat. I imagine Gul will being pitching it a bit further up now. He should be out next ball, going for a slog sweep and looping it up to Malik at long leg, but he's dropped an absolute dolly. This is wandering into the territory marked \"excrutiating\". Finally he goes and no one in the ground makes a noise. 1.24pm BST With the required run rate up around 20, Shakib looks to cross-bat a back-of-a-length ball again but skews it up to extra cover on the edge of the circle. 1.17pm BST Afridi is close to yorking Nasir, the batsman just jabbing the edge of his bat down on it at the last moment. Even on the odd occasion that the batsmen can get a clean hit on the ball, they haven't got the placement to beat the fielders. 1.14pm BST I've just realised that all these spurious stats they're throwing at us are based only on international T20s since 2012, which makes them even more meaningless. Ajmal returns to the attack, which is always a joy to watch, unless you happen to be at the other end facing him. This is setting up nicely for an Ajmal v Narine/Badree bowl-off on Tuesday. 1.10pm BST Shakib is so close to being stumped here. He has a wild swing and misses it, coming down the track, but swung so hard that the bat came back around and landed inside the crease. That's mighty lucky. As per tradition, the next ball is swung high over square leg for the first six of the innings... as is the next one! Finally a bit of life from Bangladesh.Meanwhile on the TV, Saeed Ajaml is having his fielding critiqued by Jonty Rhodes, which seems a little bit harsh. That's like having my OBO reviewed by Rob Smyth.  1.05pm BST Can Bangladesh get that required run rate back below 14 in this Afridi over? Nasir gives it a go, trying to whack the leather off it and clearing cover, but it's not a convincing shot and lands short of the fielder who restricts him to one. Two from the over, which is incredible given the match situation. Bangladesh have given up and their fans deserve better. 1.03pm BST After a first-ball wicket, Nasir Hossain strides to the middle looking like he has the weight of the world on his shoulders and a run of recent scores of 16, 14, and 15. I don't think Nasser Hussain would have the willpower to put something substantial together in this situation. He gets a couple to bring up a sad, sorry team 50. 12.59pm BST This is pathetic. The captain plays down the wrong line to a straight, flat one and is hit in front. 12.57pm BST \"Fancy a go, Shahid?\"Sure, why not?\"Afridi's first ball brings a wicket, which in turn brings captain Mushfiqur to the crease. Looking at the replay I'm not convinced Shamsur got anything on that ball, but at least it brings the end of this formality that little bit forward, right?Updated at 12.58pm BST 12.55pm BST It's a straight one from Afridi, which you'd expect. Shamsur doesn't expect this and looks to cut it. He gets a very thin edge through to Akmal who takes a good catch. Wow. 12.53pm BST Fancy some more spin? Pakistan do as Zulfiqar, one of 9,342 slow bowlers in today's lineup, gets a game of \"Knock Over Some Batsmen\". Shamsur goes after him, top edging a big slog sweep, but it lands safely wide of the fielder Ajmal. Not a lot of turn here for Zulfiqar, who's probably pitching it a bit too full up to give the ball time to move. Again it's just four from the over. 12.50pm BST 36 isn't a great return from the powerplay. It's a dreadful return when you need 11.5 runs per over as Bangladesh now do. There's no real rush for Pakistan to take the wickets either now, as this win makes it a straight shoot-out between them and the West Indies for the semi-final slot behind India; net run rate doesn't come into it. 12.48pm BST I can imagine the mood in our Australian office isn't great right now, as the fact that they'll be OBOing a dead rubber with their team eliminated, becomes ever clearer. Anamul isn't giving up the ghost just get as he plonks Ajmal into the fence at cow corner for an ugly, one-bounce four. That's as good as it gets though and the inevitability of the result is illuminated by Ajmal's lack of celebration at the wicket; it really was a very good catch too. We're checking for a stumping now... there was downward movement of the foot after the bails came off but I reckon the toe was already touching the ground. 12.45pm BST Tossed up and the batsman gets a leading edge, Ajmal takes a low return catch. 12.42pm BST More pace, which is a surprise, in the form of Umar Gul, although he's too canny for the out-of-nick Tamim. Shakib has been promoted to number three. In fact it was the inside edge, then the pad that it took from the batsman on to the stumps. Gul sends down a poor full toss outside off stump, but Shakib can only push it to the fielder. No runs from the first four balls but they scamper a single from the fifth to get Anamul \u2013 the closest Bangladesh have to a form player \u2013 on strike. According to the broadcaster, his strong zone is the short ball drifting towards leg. I imagine that's most people's strong zone. 12.39pm BST Tamim was halfway down the track by the time that hit the stumps. He ran down, Gul smartly dragged it back and immediately the batsman knew he was in trouble. It took the outside edge and flicked back into off stump. 12.36pm BST Run-out chance here as Tamim is struggling to make his ground from the non-striker's end, but the throw from silly point is wide. A slow, short, wide one from Tanvir is left alone by Tamim, which I guess shows the difference in form between now and a couple of years ago for the batsman \u2013 when he was thrashing England all over the place a couple of years ago there's no way he'd have missed out there. He doesn't miss out here as the fourth ball strays towards leg and is helped on its way to the fence with a lovely swivel pull. A couple of singles, a couple of twos here and there and it's ten from the over. 12.31pm BST Hafeez draws a leading edge from Anamul but there's no carry on this pitch and it's perfectly safe. Anamul steps down the track and, although the ball holds up a little in the pitch, he reads it perfectly and smacks four over mid-on. I reckon that's landed on the rope and Bangladesh have been done out of two runs here... nope maybe not, it was a fraction inside looking at the replays. 12.28pm BST Pace from the other end though and Anamul gets a boundary off of Tanvir's first ball, deflecting it to third man. Incidentally if Pakistan win then Australia will have emulated England and gone out at the group stage. I'm a little surprised Tanvir is opening the bowling; with the number of spinners at his disposal it might have been an idea for Hafeez to open with spin at both ends and just let that required run rate climb, escalating the pressure. Tamim hooks wildly into no man's land at square leg and gets a couple. 12.24pm BST Hafeez opens the bowling, as is normal and as you'd expect with spin proving by far and away the most effective style of bowling so far. Tamil gets four, cutting him through point. 12.13pm BST Oh for... Maqsood launches it down the throat of Nasir Hossain at long off and the fielder shells an absolute sitter on the rope. The last ball is a single to mid-on and Pakistan get 190, which is remarkable on this dead pitch where the ball wasn't coming off the bat particularly cleanly. Ahmed Shehzad's unbeaten 111 from just 62 balls has almost certainly put this game beyond Bangladesh. Afridi and Ajmal could defend this in their sleep. 12.08pm BST \"I know,\" thinks Al-Amin, \"I'll bowl short and wide outside off stump.\" His first ball with that theory is slashed for four over third man by Afridi, then overthrows give them a couple more. This is a sorry, sorry finish from Bangladesh. Afridi gets a couple more to square leg, then holes out to long on, cross batting a slow, short ball. 12.05pm BST That was actually a remarkably good death over from Shakib, going for just five. Less good from Mortaza, whose length ball is whacked for six over mid-on. He has Shehzad caught in the deep by Tamim on the next ball... oh no it's a no-ball! So a free hit and, as the batsmen crossed, Afridi is on strike for it. Exactly zero people are surprised as Afridi belts it \u2013 his second ball in the innings \u2013right over extra cover for six, bringing up the bowler's fifty. Ouch. Afridi is caught off the next ball, only for Anamul Haque to fall over the boundary, again at extra cover, after taking the catch and giving up the third six of the over. The final ball is full, wide and carved past third man for four. 24 from a dreadful, Dernbach-esque over. Mortaza finishes with eye-watering figures of 4-0-63-0. 11.58am BST Right can Shehzad emulate Alex Hales and become the second batsman to score a hundred at this tournament? He gets a single from Shakib to equal his own record, before Malik has to use his full reach to squirt a single to point. Shehzad works it to mid-on and wants two, but they can only manage a single. The wicket of Malik brings Afridi to the crease and it feels a little unfair that the crowd are getting a little more excited about watching this bowling all-rounder than Shehzad getting his country's first ever century.And Shehzad pushes a single through cover to reach his hundred, which is met with a smattering of applause. Come on now, crowd, you can do better than that. This century deserves far better than that. 11.56am BST Malik misreads this one entirely, running down the pitch and going through with the shot far too early, giving the captain and 'keeper the easiest of stumpings. 11.53am BST With the spin options wearing thin, Al-Amin is back on. The three seamers have economies in double figures (Ziaur's is 22.00 from one over), whereas the worst of any spinner is Mahmadullah's 8.00. There's a rather loud swear from Shehzad as a slow leg cutter beats his hard slash outside off stump. A couple chipped to mid-on and a single take him to within one of his own Pakistani T20 record of 98. 11.47am BST Shehzad is getting silly now. He has essentially just sat down and tried to play the scoop to fine leg. Unsurprisingly, he misses that one. He misses the next one too, which Mortaza sends miles down the leg side for five unwanted wides. Creamed over cover after that for a one-bounce four; is there any player who veers so wildly between such beauty and such ugliness in their strokes as Shehzad? Heaven knows what that next shot was as he ran down the pitch and used the full face to chip it just over the bowler for a single. This is fantastic nonsense. Four more as a poor bouncer is pulled nicely behind square. That's 16 from the over and Shehzad in touching distance of Pakistan's first ever T20 hundred.Updated at 11.52am BST 11.42am BST \"Who knew, Bangladesh don't do British summer time,\" my colleague Daniel Harris has just said. OK, OK, I'm an idiot. 11.41am BST With control needed once again, Bangladesh turn back to Shakib. Shehzad, with his marvellous Commander Riker beard, goes inside out over extra cover with a wonderful drive for a couple, then whacks a hideous one straight up in the air that fortunately for him drops into no-man's land as Nasir Hossain goes off for treatment. Just seven off the over, which Bangladesh will reluctantly take right now. I imagine the wicket of Shehzad would have been preferable though.It\u2019s almost as if Bangladesh don\u2019t want to be a tiny piece of an unlikely jigsaw of results necessary to get Australia into the #WT20 finals 11.35am BST Malik is an excellent runner between wickets and he has to be here, getting back for a second as a throw from square of the wicket results in a direct hit. So quick is Malik though, that they don't even need to refer it upstairs. Finally Mahmadullah goes for a boundary as he sends down a full toss and Malik welts it for a boundary through mid-on. A second in as many balls follows with a crunching off drive that goes through the fielder Nasir Hossain on the sweep. 11.31am BST Since Shehzad brought up his fifty in the tenth over, he's faced just six balls and added six more to his score. With the seventh ball he doubles that number of runs, hitting a length ball from the seamer Ziaur over mid-on for six more. Another four comes from the second ball, run nicely down to third man and Bangladesh may be regretting not having another spinner in the ranks here. A single to gully brings up the hundred for Pakistan and a big hoik from outside off to mid-wicket brings up the 106 from the next ball. Four more timed beautifully through point makes it 22 from the over. Ah. 11.24am BST Mahmadullah is the most economical bowler in the tournament so far and he's in for his second over. He looks happy to concede singles to cover here with Pakistan coming under increasing pressure from the dearth of boundaries. The run rate is 7.30, which would give Pakistan a very chaseable 146. Mahmadullah sends down a poor full toss, but again they can only get a single.28 balls since the ball last went over the rope now... 11.20am BST We've not seen many bowlers bowl through in this tournament so far, but Razzak is going to. The fielders are surrounding new batsman Malik and unsurprisingly Shane Warne approves of this aggressive captaincy. The pressure is well and truly on and some good fielding on the rope at third man means it's now 22 balls since the last boundary. 11.16am BST Mahmadullah becomes the third spinner introduced to the attack. As captaincy decisions go, it's not the hardest, but it's certainly the right one given he removes Umar Akmal for nothing at all. It was an appalling shot mind, as Shane Warne says. Earlier in the over, Shehzad brought up his 50 almost unnoticed, but he's playing a lone hand here. After that great start Pakistan are having a bit of a wobblen and their set batsman is almost run out here going for a second to mid-on, but the fielding is pretty ordinary. 11.13am BST Oh dear. An ugly shot, looking to slash it through cover I think, catches a huge edge and loops up to Tamim at short third man. Pakistan in trouble here now their form batsman has gone. 11.10am BST Good move to keep Razzak on I reckon given the control he offers and Shehzad's aggressive mood. Hafeez has struggled a little against him and no sooner does he try to attack him than the left-armer gets him. 11.09am BST That's a beauty from Razzak, turning it past Hafeez's outside edge as the batsman stepped forward and looked to turn him to mid-on. Mushfiqur does the rest. 11.05am BST I would imagine Pakistan will attack now as Al-Amin comes back on. He starts with a good ball, full outside off stump, which tangles Shehzad up as he looks to scoop. A more old-fashioned shot, an inside-out drive over cover, is more successful and it lands on the rope, bringing six runs and taking him to 44. Pakistan have apparently won every game where Shehzad has scored more than 40, although that stat is probably more relevant to superstition than anything else. He's almost swept one on to his stumps here, looking to play the kind of shot that was so successful for AB de Villiers last night. The over mirrors Al-Amin's first, going as it does for 11. 11.00am BST A man who knows a thing or two about good spin bowling, Shane Warne, is in the commentary box. I'm struggling to fathom why Abdur Razzak was dropped by Bangladesh in the first couple of games as Hafeez \u2013 an excellent player of spin \u2013 is cautious against him here. He's lucky that these two are good runners between the wicket, as dropping it into the gap is about all they're able to do at the moment. 10.57am BST Spin is, emphatically, the way to go it seems. The first three overs of seam went for 34 runs; the two of spin since then just 12. Hafeez, mindful of the way the wicket-taking delivery gripped the pitch, is watchful against Shakib, who, like Razzak, is bowling from so wide around the crease that he's risking being no-balled. Just four from that over and Bangladesh have come back very well in the powerplay.Updated at 10.59am BST 10.54am BST Razzak, back into the side today, comes into the attack and his flatter brand of left-arm spin is effective early on. As I said may happen, the ball sticks in the pitch and Kamran knew he was in trouble with his pre-meditated lap scoop thing straight away. Captain Hafeez comes in and gets his first run with a sharp single to mid-on. That's a great over from Razzak, who is bowling from very wide around the stumps. Four runs and a wicket. 10.51am BST Oh what a catch this is! Akmal fluffs a scoop and top edges it to short fine leg, where Ziaur takes a marvellous catch leaping backwards. Like watching Paul Collingwood, that one. 10.49am BST It's fair to say that seam isn't working, so Bangladesh turn to their star all-rounder Shakib and his left-arm darts. He induces a big top edge from the sweeping Kamran Akmal, but with no fielder at deep square leg the ball trickles sadly for four. Akmal tries to slog an ugly leg side wide but misses it and gets a few byes. The final ball brings a shout for LBW from the wicketkeeper but it's come off the gloves. Great start this for Pakistan but it's very much buffet bowling. 10.45am BST Ugh, a disgusting slog from Shehzad over mid-wicket brings four, as does a much nicer flick over fine leg. Mortaza is bowling these on a good length and it's difficult to work out what his idea length would be. He tries a fuller, slower ball and Shehzad makes it three boundaries in three with an inside-out cover drive. A rare dot ball follows before Shehzad dances down the track and lofts a straight drive for six to make it 18 from the over.\"An hour early isn't embarassing,\" writes Gary Naylor. \"I once turned up a whole day early for a ferry to Bergen and had to invest in a Whitley Bay BandB.\" 10.40am BST Al-Amin Hossain is, as usual, the other opening bowler, which means seam from both ends. The pitch looks so slow that it might be difficult to get the ball away to the fence here, as it could well stick in the pitch. The batsmen are happy to get on to the front foot, work the ball into the gaps here and run the singles quickly. Al-Amin strays on to Shehzad's pads with a full one and fine leg is up, so the batsman easily flicks it over him for four.The risk on these pitches is that if you drop short the batsman will have all the time in the world to flay it wherever and Al-Amin over-compensates with the penultimate ball, which is driven back past him for four more. 10.36am BST Mashrafe Mortaza, who has spearheaded Bangladesh's attack since 1904, is opening the bowling to the out-of-form Shehzad under the watchful eyes of Richard Kettleborough and Ian Gould. Pakistan get off the mark thanks to a misfield at square leg; Bangladesh's fielding hasn't been good so far in this tournament and that's an ominous portent. There's absolutely nothing on offer for the bowlers on what looks to be a featherbed and, after a couple of leaves, I can't imagine that Akmal will need long to get his eye in here. Oh I say that and he's beaten all ends up here by one angled in, the crooked bat wafting miles from both body and ball and it passes low over the stumps. Wide filth for the final ball though and it's cut hard to the point boundary. 10.29am BST Which means we'll begin in a couple of minutes. What do we reckon a good score for Pakistan will be? They're capable of getting 180+, especially if Umar Akmal continues the form he showed against Australia, although I doubt they'll need that many. Anything over 160 should be defended comfortably enough. 10.19am BST \"Hi Dan,\" begins this email from Zeeshan Ahmad. \"Any news on the Pakistan flag being allowed inside the stadium? Last I heard they had been banned by the Bangladesh Cricket Board authorities.\"I'd not heard about this, but there appears to be something to it. Specifically, Bangladeshis are banned from carrying the flags of any other nation into the ground, so it's not a Pakistan-specific thing. 10.06am BST They're both in the bowling department too: Sohail Tanvir comes in for Bilawal Bhatti for Pakistan, while for Bangladesh, Abdur Razzak replaces Sohag Gazi.Updated at 10.06am BST 10.05am BST Bangladesh: Tamim Iqbal, Anamul Haque, Shamsur Rahman, Shakib Al Hasan, Mushfiqur Rahim*\u2020, Nasir Hossain, Mahmudullah, Ziaur Rahman, Mashrafe Mortaza, Abdur Razzak, Al-Amin HossainPakistan: Kamran Akmal\u2020, Ahmed Shehzad, Mohammad Hafeez*, Umar Akmal, Shoaib Malik, Sohaib Maqsood, Shahid Afridi, Sohail Tanvir, Umar Gul, Zulfiqar Babar, Saeed Ajmal 10.02am BST Pakistan have won that and will have a bat. 9.46am BST Perhaps surprisingly, Bangladesh can still qualify for the semi-finals. Beat Pakistan today and Australia on Tuesday and they'll have four points; if Pakistan beat the West Indies in the following game, then both of those teams will have the same and it all comes down to net run rate.The bad news is that Bangladesh's is now a miserable -2.204, largely thanks to that enormous 73-run defeat by the Windies \u2013 the second-highest in this competition overall and the highest in the main pool stage \u2013 and their chances of overhauling the West Indies' +1.223 are slightly on the slim side. Still, hope there! 9.24am BST I'm going to sheepishly get a coffee. You guys can get an extra hour's kip, I guess. 9.17am BST Bangladesh doesn't appear to have adjusted its clocks, unlike here, which means I'm an hour early. 9.07am BST Morning folks. Apologies but we don't have long to go until this one starts as it took me a while to get into the building this morning, so let's get on with it.Bangladesh been pretty dismal in hosting their own tournament. Never mind the lights going out regularly in Chittagong, nor the bizarre decision to hold day-night games in locations that become drenched with dew at night making bowling and catching near-impossible; they've been close to inept when it comes to actually playing\n\ncricket\n T20. It's three defeats in a row now, narrowly to lil' ol' Hong Kong then utter spankings by the West Indies and India. Captain Mushfiqur Rahim has urged players to play their natural game, but if this is that then things do not bode well for Bangladeshi cricket.You'd say that their best chance of a win comes in today's game against Pakistan, although Bangladesh have never beaten these opponents in this format. Still, Mohammed Hafeez's side were equally inept against India \u2013 indeed they posted a lower total \u2013 but, as shown with their win over Australia, are as erratic as ever. You'd make Pakistan the heavy, heavy favourites today, but a defeat would send them out. Win on the other hand, and it's an effective quarter-final with the West Indies for them in Mirpur on Tuesday.Much credit has to be given to the Bangladesh fans for pushing the big button marked \"atmosphere\" in this tournament so far in spite of their team's and the organisers' attempts to quash a potentially wonderful tournament. The team owes them a performance and today, against their Asian rivals, might be the day to pull it out the bag.Play begins at 09.30am GMT. 9.07am BST Dan will be along from around 10am. ", "tags": ["World Twenty20 2014", "Bangladesh Cricket Team", "Pakistan cricket team", "Cricket", "Twenty20", "World Twenty20", "Over by over reports"], "title": "Bangladesh v Pakistan: World Twenty20 \u2013 as it happened | Dan Lucas"},{"date": "2014-01-28T16:32:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An attempt to launch the memoir of the Pakistani schoolgirl who became a global icon after being shot in the head by the Taliban in her home province has been scuppered by opposition from local politicians.Malala Yousafzai's book was due to be launched at an event on Monday at Peshawar University but organisers were forced to scrap it after the intervention of two senior members of the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KP).The episode underlines the antipathy among many Pakistanis towards the 16-year-old who campaigned for education in the face of Taliban opposition.While she has been hailed in the west for her campaign against extremism, in Pakistan she is widely regarded with suspicion, with many people believing conspiracy theories that the story of the Taliban attempt to assassinate her as she travelled to school in October 2012 was untrue or exaggerated.The event that was to have been held at the university's Central Asia Area Study Centre had been intended to raise awareness of a book which is not widely available in Pakistan.Few booksellers dare stock it after the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which is particularly strong in KP, threatened to attack shops selling copies of I Am Malala.Organisers said they came under enormous pressure to abandon the event, with ministers, the police and university officials all intervening.\"They all made so many excuses,\" said Khadim Hussain, director of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation and one of the organisers. \"First they said it was a security risk, then they said the book was not relevant to the study centre.\"He said opponents of the book launch simply wanted to please the Taliban.The provincial government is controlled by a coalition comprising a hardline Islamist party called Jamaat-e-Islami (JI) and the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) led by Imran Khan, a former cricket player whom critics often accuse of pandering to the country's religious right.Provincial ministers from both parties approached the Area Study Centre to demand the event be cancelled.They later said they viewed the event as party political because of the Baacha Khan Education Foundation's affiliation with the Awami National party, a left-leaning secular party that competes with the PTI and JI in the province.Writing on Twitter, Imran Khan said he was taken aback by the decision to stop the book launch. \"I am at a complete loss to understand why Malala's book launch in Peshawar was stopped. PTI stands 4 freedom of expression & debate,\" he tweeted.The party's spokesperson later said there had been \"no ban or stoppage of launch\" of the book, but there was \"an issue of venue\".Yousafzai was shot in October 2012 but survived long enough to be moved to the UK for further surgery and to continue her education. She later became the youngest ever nominee for the Nobel peace prize.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "World news", "Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "Taliban"], "title": "Malala Yousafzai memoir launch scrapped in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-28T12:58:23Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is being put on a \"war footing\" to counter a surge in terrorism, according to a senior leader in the ruling party who promised military strikes against the Taliban and brushed aside human rights fears about draconian new anti-terror laws.Rana Sanaullah, the law minister of Punjab province and one of the prime minister's closest confidants, told the Guardian the time had finally come to \"smash\" militant safe havens.A spike in Taliban-led violence has prompted a dramatic rethink in policy from a government long determined to avoid a confrontation with the country's militant groups.Expectations are growing of a long-delayed military push against al-Qaida-linked groups operating from North Waziristan, a semi-autonomous tribal area on the Afghan border.In a meeting on Monday evening of assembly members of the governing Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz (PML-N), a majority voted to support a military operation against militants.\"Without eliminating terrorism and extremism we cannot place Pakistan on fast track of development,\" the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, told the gathering of parliamentarians.The government has not announced exactly what it plans to do, leading some sceptics to doubt their resolve.Sanaullah said a decision had been made to launch military operations but the army would be left to decide exactly what form any operation would take.Opposition politicians have warned a draconian new anti-terror law promulgated without parliamentary approval last week could turn the country into a \"police state\". Among the provisions of the Protection of Pakistan Ordinance (PPO) are secret courts, greater shoot-to-kill freedoms for the police, house raids without warrants and the detention of terror suspects without charge for three months.Sanaullah said: \"This should have been done 10 years ago. Even if it is 5% misused, then we must support it anyway because without it there is no chance that you can fight terrorists.\"Pakistan's law enforcement agencies have long been accused of illegally detaining \"missing persons\" for years on end and abusing prisoners in their custody.\"I think what will be done will be no worse than what has happened in Guant\u00e1namo Bay,\" Sanaullah said when asked about the risk of terror suspects being tortured.Multiple accusations of abuse of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo have been made against the US.Sanaullah's strikingly tough language comes after a year of studied inaction on terrorism by the PML-N, the governing party that won a landslide victory in general elections in May.Ever since then, the government has resisted pressure to unleash the army on a bewildering range of militant groups responsible for near-daily attacks on civilians, religious minorities, journalists, polio vaccinators and the security forces.Sharif has held firm to a policy of trying to negotiate with militants, who last year were declared to be \"stakeholders\" in a potential peace process.But a spate of deadly attacks in recent weeks on military targets by the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has prompted the government to dramatically toughen its rhetoric.Last week the armed forces used jets and helicopter gunships to assault targets in North Waziristan that the army claimed were militant hideouts.In a sign of the government's newfound pugnaciousness, Sanaullah even offered a qualified defence of drones, the CIA's unmanned attack aircraft, which Pakistan's politicians have publicly railed against for years.\"We believe that drone attacks damage the terrorists, very much,\" he said, admitting much of the outrage over drones was contrived. \"Inside, everyone believes that drone attacks are good; but outside, everyone condemn because the drones are American.\"Mustafa Qadri, a Pakistan expert from Amnesty International, said with the PPO the government was \"creating some of the most repressive security laws in Pakistan's history\".\"Rather than making Pakistan safe, these laws risk inflaming an already volatile situation and creating an environment of widespread abuse,\" he said.Sanaullah heaped scorn on such misgivings, saying rights groups were \"serving the cause of the Taliban\". \"This has to be enforced on war footing,\" he said. \"The NGOs and human rights forces will come in, and they can delay these things.\"Many analysts have long doubted that the PML-N will ever order a comprehensive campaign against militancy and extremism, arguing that the party was purely concerned to shield from violence wealthy Punjab province, the party's political heartland.PML-N bosses, including Sanaullah, have been accused of striking secret non-aggression pacts with militant groups in the past, to keep Punjab relatively secure.But Sanaullah said the government's new stance on militancy had to wait for the retirement of three critical figures late last year: that of the former president Asif Ali Zardari, the former chief justice Iftikhar Chaudhry, who became infamous for interfering in government business, and the former army chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.\"If Chief Justice Chaudhry was in office now, he would have struck down the PPO the next day,\" he said. He also claimed Kayani, who served as head of Pakistan's powerful army for six years, had been unwilling to tackle the TTP, despite persistent claims by military sources that the former army chief was frustrated by the lack of action.To protect Punjab, \"operations\" will be mounted in 174 areas of the province where communities of Pashtuns, from the country's more volatile north-west, have settled, Sanaullah said. \"We feel apprehension that they will retaliate in Punjab.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Al-Qaida", "Afghanistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'on war footing to smash Taliban'"},{"date": "2014-01-24T13:26:41Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani court has convicted a British man with a history of mental illness of blasphemy and sentenced him to death.The prosecutor Javed Gul said Mohammed Asghar had been arrested in Rawalpindi in 2010 for claiming to be the prophet Muhammad. He said a judge sentenced Asghar, who is of Pakistani origin, on Thursday.His legal team in Pakistan said he suffered from mental illness and that they would appeal against the conviction.Scores of people have been arrested under Pakistan's harsh blasphemy laws, which rights groups say are too broad and vague. The penalty can be life imprisonment or death, although the latter is rarely carried out in Pakistan.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Briton sentenced to death in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-01-20T17:30:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Amid a growing energy crisis, Pakistan is installing a 1.8 megawatt solar power plant at the Parliament House building in the capital city Islamabad.Work on the project began in the first week of January. The initial cost - which is being funded by the Chinese government as a friendship gesture \u2013 is estimated at $60m (\u00a336.5). The solar plant is projected to save almost $1m each year in utility bills for the parliament complex.\u201cThis is the first project of its kind (in a public building) in Pakistan, and later more public buildings will be converted to solar power to overcome the energy crisis,\u201d said Munawar Abbas Shah, a special secretary at the National Assembly.\u00a0Beijing has formally approved the funding for the parliamentary solar plant, so \u201cPakistan is not going to spend even a single penny,\u201d Shah added.Although Pakistan has no plans to introduce solar power on a large scale, China recently helped Punjab province set up a solar park of over 10,000 acres (around 4,000 hectares) with potential to generate 1,000 MW.Meanwhile, some experts hope that the high-profile example set by the government in Islamabad will encourage uptake of domestic solar energy kits for individual households. Many remain unconnected to the electricity grid, or are suffering from the country\u2019s chronic power shortages. But the government and the private sector must take measures to incentivise consumers, they argue.Parliament House, where both the National Assembly and Senate meet, was designed to be centrally air-conditioned. \u201cThe consumption of electricity in the parliament even jumps over 2 MW in summers when the house is in session,\u201d Shah said.The solar energy plant will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as overcoming the frequent and prolonged power outages that affect the buildings, he added.Pakistan faces a year-round electricity shortfall which rises to about 7,000 MW in the summer months, leaving the majority of its citizens without continuous supplies for extended periods each day.The power situation is worse in off-grid homes. According to a\u00a0World Bank report, around 44% of households are not connected to the grid. More than 80% of these are in rural areas, where a World Bank survey found that 30-45% of households use kerosene as a primary or secondary source of lighting.Promoters of solar power see an opportunity, despite the lack of infrastructure. Iftikhar Ahmad Qaisrani, founder of the Renewable Energy Society for Education, Awareness Research and Community Help (RESEARCH), an Islamabad-based organisation representing the renewable energy sector, said Pakistan is blessed with 320 days of sunshine per year and around eight hours of sun per day.Solar home systems could be a widespread solution, as long as they can be made affordable, he believes.Pakistan\u2019s neighbours India and Bangladesh already benefit significantly from solar power, having converted most of their irrigation systems to this renewable source, which also provides off-grid power to thousands of homes, Qaisrani noted.\u201cInstallation of solar power is a one-time expenditure and people should be encouraged to avail (themselves of) the opportunity,\u201d he added. \u201cThis is the right time to encourage the public and private sector to focus on solar energy and provide off-grid solutions to people living in far-flung areas of the country.\u201dConverting a single home to solar power may cost $3,500 to $4,000, but if correctly installed, the system can provide uninterrupted electricity for 25 years, Qaisrani said.\u201cPakistan can also save millions of dollars (in) foreign reserves per annum just by switching to solar power,\u201d Qaisrani added. The country uses fossil fuels to generate around 65% of its electricity. Over half of that fuel must be imported, and as prices rise on international markets, Pakistan\u2019s electricity is becoming more expensive.Manufacturers in Pakistan rely on imports for the components of solar power systems, as no solar cells or photovoltaic panels are manufactured locally. Solar panels are brought in from Germany, Japan and China, while batteries are both imported and locally manufactured.The cost of components for solar home systems remains high because a 32% import duty is levied on solar photovoltaic cells, 10% on batteries, and 15% on ready-made solar lanterns.Abdul Hanan Siddhu, a solar energy consultant, said solar home systems could be up to 20% cheaper if import duties on solar panels were abolished. In addition, the government should exempt solar components from the general sales tax of 17%, he said.\u201cThe government should also encourage local manufacturers to start cell manufacturing to reduce the cost,\u201d he added. On top of this, government subsidies could help boost the solar off-grid lighting sector.While lack of awareness about the advantages of solar energy has kept the market small,\u00a0people are beginning to turn to solar power\u00a0partly in response to prolonged power outages, Siddhu added.RESEARCH\u2019s Qaisrani acknowledged there is as yet no national strategy to promote solar lanterns or solar home systems, but described parliament\u2019s conversion to solar power as \u201cencouraging\u201d.\u2022 Aamir Saeed is a journalist based in Islamabad", "tags": ["Environment", "Solar power", "Energy", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan parliament turns to solar power"},{"date": "2014-01-14T13:30:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Qinetiq, the company spun out of the Ministry of Defence research department, is on the move after reports of a deal with Pakistan.Its shares are up 7.7p or 3.4% to 235.2p following talk that the company has sold $7.8m worth of Talon robots, unmanned ground vehicles used to track bombs and other explosives, to the country. The order was said to comprise 100 of the military robots.", "tags": ["Business", "QinetiQ"], "title": "Qinetiq climbs on reports of Pakistan order"},{"date": "2014-03-30T12:51:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": " 1.51pm BST Essentially we have an unofficial quarter final stage to this tournament now, as the winner of Pakistan v the West Indies on Tuesday will go through. As for Bangladesh they're out.Also out are Australia, who are about to go and give India some batting practice. We'll have the OBO for that coming straight outta\n\nCompton\n Sydney. Thanks for reading, bye! 1.47pm BST \n\nIn a surprise move, Pakistan have called up Jade Dernbach to bowl the final over and Bangladesh have won.\nUmar Gul will bowl the final over and Mortaza is showing greater competence with the bat than he did today with the ball. He glides first a full one, then a short one, calmly down to third man for four runs. A dot, a scrambled single and Mahmadullah will face the final ball of the game. It's hit down the ground for one and that's that.Updated at 1.50pm BST 1.43pm BST Mortaza again goes over mid-off and gets four with a nice clean hit off of Tanvir. By this point though the required rate is up to 42.00 and, given this isn't England's death bowling attack, nothing that matters is going to happen for the rest of this game. Tanvir, like Shakib and Razzak earlier, is bowling very wide around the wicket and must be close to being no-balled for it. 62 needed from the last over: are you on the edge of your seats? 1.39pm BST The aforementioned Daniel Harris has the MBM for Fulham v Everton. You can switch over to that now; this was done so long ago it's now burnt to an inedible crisp.Umar Gul is flicked away for Mahmudullah, whose name I've been spelling wrong all along, but the relentless Shehzad makes a great stop sliding along the boundary. Ziaur is out first ball and poor old Mortaza walks out to be greeted with a bouncer. He gets his own back, sort of, by belting four over cover.\"I remember series in the 70s when crowds would cheer even good throw ins from opposing teams,\" writes Zia Faruqui. \"The current silence at opposition runs or wickets is shameful.\"There has been absolutely nothing for the home crowd to cheer, Zia. This has been as miserable a tournament as the 1999 World Cup was for England. 1.36pm BST Another short one, a clueless non-shot sees the bat wafted at the ball and a thin edge through to the keeper. 1.31pm BST 91 needed then at 22.75 an over. Ajmal comes around the wicket and finds the top edge as Nasir looks to run it to third man. It's not quite the shot he was trying to play but it gets four to the right region anyhow. Mahmadullah gets in on the free-hitting act, slogging a sweep from outside off stump for a flat six over mid-wicket. Nasir goes from the final ball. 1.31pm BST Another stumping. He walks down, looks to smash it over cover, misses the quicker ball and is stumped. 1.27pm BST Nasir brings out a faint, dusty, faded reminder of his potential as he steps down the track to an over-pitched Afridi delivery and drives it sweetly over mid-off for six. They get a single at the end of the over and look, they've got their hundred.  1.25pm BST This is getting close to a pride-salvaging innings from Shakib as he turns a length ball from Gul to square leg for four. He then slaps it to long off for four more with what looks to me like a leading edge off of a horizontal bat. I imagine Gul will being pitching it a bit further up now. He should be out next ball, going for a slog sweep and looping it up to Malik at long leg, but he's dropped an absolute dolly. This is wandering into the territory marked \"excrutiating\". Finally he goes and no one in the ground makes a noise. 1.24pm BST With the required run rate up around 20, Shakib looks to cross-bat a back-of-a-length ball again but skews it up to extra cover on the edge of the circle. 1.17pm BST Afridi is close to yorking Nasir, the batsman just jabbing the edge of his bat down on it at the last moment. Even on the odd occasion that the batsmen can get a clean hit on the ball, they haven't got the placement to beat the fielders. 1.14pm BST I've just realised that all these spurious stats they're throwing at us are based only on international T20s since 2012, which makes them even more meaningless. Ajmal returns to the attack, which is always a joy to watch, unless you happen to be at the other end facing him. This is setting up nicely for an Ajmal v Narine/Badree bowl-off on Tuesday. 1.10pm BST Shakib is so close to being stumped here. He has a wild swing and misses it, coming down the track, but swung so hard that the bat came back around and landed inside the crease. That's mighty lucky. As per tradition, the next ball is swung high over square leg for the first six of the innings... as is the next one! Finally a bit of life from Bangladesh.Meanwhile on the TV, Saeed Ajaml is having his fielding critiqued by Jonty Rhodes, which seems a little bit harsh. That's like having my OBO reviewed by Rob Smyth.  1.05pm BST Can Bangladesh get that required run rate back below 14 in this Afridi over? Nasir gives it a go, trying to whack the leather off it and clearing cover, but it's not a convincing shot and lands short of the fielder who restricts him to one. Two from the over, which is incredible given the match situation. Bangladesh have given up and their fans deserve better. 1.03pm BST After a first-ball wicket, Nasir Hossain strides to the middle looking like he has the weight of the world on his shoulders and a run of recent scores of 16, 14, and 15. I don't think Nasser Hussain would have the willpower to put something substantial together in this situation. He gets a couple to bring up a sad, sorry team 50. 12.59pm BST This is pathetic. The captain plays down the wrong line to a straight, flat one and is hit in front. 12.57pm BST \"Fancy a go, Shahid?\"Sure, why not?\"Afridi's first ball brings a wicket, which in turn brings captain Mushfiqur to the crease. Looking at the replay I'm not convinced Shamsur got anything on that ball, but at least it brings the end of this formality that little bit forward, right?Updated at 12.58pm BST 12.55pm BST It's a straight one from Afridi, which you'd expect. Shamsur doesn't expect this and looks to cut it. He gets a very thin edge through to Akmal who takes a good catch. Wow. 12.53pm BST Fancy some more spin? Pakistan do as Zulfiqar, one of 9,342 slow bowlers in today's lineup, gets a game of \"Knock Over Some Batsmen\". Shamsur goes after him, top edging a big slog sweep, but it lands safely wide of the fielder Ajmal. Not a lot of turn here for Zulfiqar, who's probably pitching it a bit too full up to give the ball time to move. Again it's just four from the over. 12.50pm BST 36 isn't a great return from the powerplay. It's a dreadful return when you need 11.5 runs per over as Bangladesh now do. There's no real rush for Pakistan to take the wickets either now, as this win makes it a straight shoot-out between them and the West Indies for the semi-final slot behind India; net run rate doesn't come into it. 12.48pm BST I can imagine the mood in our Australian office isn't great right now, as the fact that they'll be OBOing a dead rubber with their team eliminated, becomes ever clearer. Anamul isn't giving up the ghost just get as he plonks Ajmal into the fence at cow corner for an ugly, one-bounce four. That's as good as it gets though and the inevitability of the result is illuminated by Ajmal's lack of celebration at the wicket; it really was a very good catch too. We're checking for a stumping now... there was downward movement of the foot after the bails came off but I reckon the toe was already touching the ground. 12.45pm BST Tossed up and the batsman gets a leading edge, Ajmal takes a low return catch. 12.42pm BST More pace, which is a surprise, in the form of Umar Gul, although he's too canny for the out-of-nick Tamim. Shakib has been promoted to number three. In fact it was the inside edge, then the pad that it took from the batsman on to the stumps. Gul sends down a poor full toss outside off stump, but Shakib can only push it to the fielder. No runs from the first four balls but they scamper a single from the fifth to get Anamul \u2013 the closest Bangladesh have to a form player \u2013 on strike. According to the broadcaster, his strong zone is the short ball drifting towards leg. I imagine that's most people's strong zone. 12.39pm BST Tamim was halfway down the track by the time that hit the stumps. He ran down, Gul smartly dragged it back and immediately the batsman knew he was in trouble. It took the outside edge and flicked back into off stump. 12.36pm BST Run-out chance here as Tamim is struggling to make his ground from the non-striker's end, but the throw from silly point is wide. A slow, short, wide one from Tanvir is left alone by Tamim, which I guess shows the difference in form between now and a couple of years ago for the batsman \u2013 when he was thrashing England all over the place a couple of years ago there's no way he'd have missed out there. He doesn't miss out here as the fourth ball strays towards leg and is helped on its way to the fence with a lovely swivel pull. A couple of singles, a couple of twos here and there and it's ten from the over. 12.31pm BST Hafeez draws a leading edge from Anamul but there's no carry on this pitch and it's perfectly safe. Anamul steps down the track and, although the ball holds up a little in the pitch, he reads it perfectly and smacks four over mid-on. I reckon that's landed on the rope and Bangladesh have been done out of two runs here... nope maybe not, it was a fraction inside looking at the replays. 12.28pm BST Pace from the other end though and Anamul gets a boundary off of Tanvir's first ball, deflecting it to third man. Incidentally if Pakistan win then Australia will have emulated England and gone out at the group stage. I'm a little surprised Tanvir is opening the bowling; with the number of spinners at his disposal it might have been an idea for Hafeez to open with spin at both ends and just let that required run rate climb, escalating the pressure. Tamim hooks wildly into no man's land at square leg and gets a couple. 12.24pm BST Hafeez opens the bowling, as is normal and as you'd expect with spin proving by far and away the most effective style of bowling so far. Tamil gets four, cutting him through point. 12.13pm BST Oh for... Maqsood launches it down the throat of Nasir Hossain at long off and the fielder shells an absolute sitter on the rope. The last ball is a single to mid-on and Pakistan get 190, which is remarkable on this dead pitch where the ball wasn't coming off the bat particularly cleanly. Ahmed Shehzad's unbeaten 111 from just 62 balls has almost certainly put this game beyond Bangladesh. Afridi and Ajmal could defend this in their sleep. 12.08pm BST \"I know,\" thinks Al-Amin, \"I'll bowl short and wide outside off stump.\" His first ball with that theory is slashed for four over third man by Afridi, then overthrows give them a couple more. This is a sorry, sorry finish from Bangladesh. Afridi gets a couple more to square leg, then holes out to long on, cross batting a slow, short ball. 12.05pm BST That was actually a remarkably good death over from Shakib, going for just five. Less good from Mortaza, whose length ball is whacked for six over mid-on. He has Shehzad caught in the deep by Tamim on the next ball... oh no it's a no-ball! So a free hit and, as the batsmen crossed, Afridi is on strike for it. Exactly zero people are surprised as Afridi belts it \u2013 his second ball in the innings \u2013right over extra cover for six, bringing up the bowler's fifty. Ouch. Afridi is caught off the next ball, only for Anamul Haque to fall over the boundary, again at extra cover, after taking the catch and giving up the third six of the over. The final ball is full, wide and carved past third man for four. 24 from a dreadful, Dernbach-esque over. Mortaza finishes with eye-watering figures of 4-0-63-0. 11.58am BST Right can Shehzad emulate Alex Hales and become the second batsman to score a hundred at this tournament? He gets a single from Shakib to equal his own record, before Malik has to use his full reach to squirt a single to point. Shehzad works it to mid-on and wants two, but they can only manage a single. The wicket of Malik brings Afridi to the crease and it feels a little unfair that the crowd are getting a little more excited about watching this bowling all-rounder than Shehzad getting his country's first ever century.And Shehzad pushes a single through cover to reach his hundred, which is met with a smattering of applause. Come on now, crowd, you can do better than that. This century deserves far better than that. 11.56am BST Malik misreads this one entirely, running down the pitch and going through with the shot far too early, giving the captain and 'keeper the easiest of stumpings. 11.53am BST With the spin options wearing thin, Al-Amin is back on. The three seamers have economies in double figures (Ziaur's is 22.00 from one over), whereas the worst of any spinner is Mahmadullah's 8.00. There's a rather loud swear from Shehzad as a slow leg cutter beats his hard slash outside off stump. A couple chipped to mid-on and a single take him to within one of his own Pakistani T20 record of 98. 11.47am BST Shehzad is getting silly now. He has essentially just sat down and tried to play the scoop to fine leg. Unsurprisingly, he misses that one. He misses the next one too, which Mortaza sends miles down the leg side for five unwanted wides. Creamed over cover after that for a one-bounce four; is there any player who veers so wildly between such beauty and such ugliness in their strokes as Shehzad? Heaven knows what that next shot was as he ran down the pitch and used the full face to chip it just over the bowler for a single. This is fantastic nonsense. Four more as a poor bouncer is pulled nicely behind square. That's 16 from the over and Shehzad in touching distance of Pakistan's first ever T20 hundred.Updated at 11.52am BST 11.42am BST \"Who knew, Bangladesh don't do British summer time,\" my colleague Daniel Harris has just said. OK, OK, I'm an idiot. 11.41am BST With control needed once again, Bangladesh turn back to Shakib. Shehzad, with his marvellous Commander Riker beard, goes inside out over extra cover with a wonderful drive for a couple, then whacks a hideous one straight up in the air that fortunately for him drops into no-man's land as Nasir Hossain goes off for treatment. Just seven off the over, which Bangladesh will reluctantly take right now. I imagine the wicket of Shehzad would have been preferable though.It\u2019s almost as if Bangladesh don\u2019t want to be a tiny piece of an unlikely jigsaw of results necessary to get Australia into the #WT20 finals 11.35am BST Malik is an excellent runner between wickets and he has to be here, getting back for a second as a throw from square of the wicket results in a direct hit. So quick is Malik though, that they don't even need to refer it upstairs. Finally Mahmadullah goes for a boundary as he sends down a full toss and Malik welts it for a boundary through mid-on. A second in as many balls follows with a crunching off drive that goes through the fielder Nasir Hossain on the sweep. 11.31am BST Since Shehzad brought up his fifty in the tenth over, he's faced just six balls and added six more to his score. With the seventh ball he doubles that number of runs, hitting a length ball from the seamer Ziaur over mid-on for six more. Another four comes from the second ball, run nicely down to third man and Bangladesh may be regretting not having another spinner in the ranks here. A single to gully brings up the hundred for Pakistan and a big hoik from outside off to mid-wicket brings up the 106 from the next ball. Four more timed beautifully through point makes it 22 from the over. Ah. 11.24am BST Mahmadullah is the most economical bowler in the tournament so far and he's in for his second over. He looks happy to concede singles to cover here with Pakistan coming under increasing pressure from the dearth of boundaries. The run rate is 7.30, which would give Pakistan a very chaseable 146. Mahmadullah sends down a poor full toss, but again they can only get a single.28 balls since the ball last went over the rope now... 11.20am BST We've not seen many bowlers bowl through in this tournament so far, but Razzak is going to. The fielders are surrounding new batsman Malik and unsurprisingly Shane Warne approves of this aggressive captaincy. The pressure is well and truly on and some good fielding on the rope at third man means it's now 22 balls since the last boundary. 11.16am BST Mahmadullah becomes the third spinner introduced to the attack. As captaincy decisions go, it's not the hardest, but it's certainly the right one given he removes Umar Akmal for nothing at all. It was an appalling shot mind, as Shane Warne says. Earlier in the over, Shehzad brought up his 50 almost unnoticed, but he's playing a lone hand here. After that great start Pakistan are having a bit of a wobblen and their set batsman is almost run out here going for a second to mid-on, but the fielding is pretty ordinary. 11.13am BST Oh dear. An ugly shot, looking to slash it through cover I think, catches a huge edge and loops up to Tamim at short third man. Pakistan in trouble here now their form batsman has gone. 11.10am BST Good move to keep Razzak on I reckon given the control he offers and Shehzad's aggressive mood. Hafeez has struggled a little against him and no sooner does he try to attack him than the left-armer gets him. 11.09am BST That's a beauty from Razzak, turning it past Hafeez's outside edge as the batsman stepped forward and looked to turn him to mid-on. Mushfiqur does the rest. 11.05am BST I would imagine Pakistan will attack now as Al-Amin comes back on. He starts with a good ball, full outside off stump, which tangles Shehzad up as he looks to scoop. A more old-fashioned shot, an inside-out drive over cover, is more successful and it lands on the rope, bringing six runs and taking him to 44. Pakistan have apparently won every game where Shehzad has scored more than 40, although that stat is probably more relevant to superstition than anything else. He's almost swept one on to his stumps here, looking to play the kind of shot that was so successful for AB de Villiers last night. The over mirrors Al-Amin's first, going as it does for 11. 11.00am BST A man who knows a thing or two about good spin bowling, Shane Warne, is in the commentary box. I'm struggling to fathom why Abdur Razzak was dropped by Bangladesh in the first couple of games as Hafeez \u2013 an excellent player of spin \u2013 is cautious against him here. He's lucky that these two are good runners between the wicket, as dropping it into the gap is about all they're able to do at the moment. 10.57am BST Spin is, emphatically, the way to go it seems. The first three overs of seam went for 34 runs; the two of spin since then just 12. Hafeez, mindful of the way the wicket-taking delivery gripped the pitch, is watchful against Shakib, who, like Razzak, is bowling from so wide around the crease that he's risking being no-balled. Just four from that over and Bangladesh have come back very well in the powerplay.Updated at 10.59am BST 10.54am BST Razzak, back into the side today, comes into the attack and his flatter brand of left-arm spin is effective early on. As I said may happen, the ball sticks in the pitch and Kamran knew he was in trouble with his pre-meditated lap scoop thing straight away. Captain Hafeez comes in and gets his first run with a sharp single to mid-on. That's a great over from Razzak, who is bowling from very wide around the stumps. Four runs and a wicket. 10.51am BST Oh what a catch this is! Akmal fluffs a scoop and top edges it to short fine leg, where Ziaur takes a marvellous catch leaping backwards. Like watching Paul Collingwood, that one. 10.49am BST It's fair to say that seam isn't working, so Bangladesh turn to their star all-rounder Shakib and his left-arm darts. He induces a big top edge from the sweeping Kamran Akmal, but with no fielder at deep square leg the ball trickles sadly for four. Akmal tries to slog an ugly leg side wide but misses it and gets a few byes. The final ball brings a shout for LBW from the wicketkeeper but it's come off the gloves. Great start this for Pakistan but it's very much buffet bowling. 10.45am BST Ugh, a disgusting slog from Shehzad over mid-wicket brings four, as does a much nicer flick over fine leg. Mortaza is bowling these on a good length and it's difficult to work out what his idea length would be. He tries a fuller, slower ball and Shehzad makes it three boundaries in three with an inside-out cover drive. A rare dot ball follows before Shehzad dances down the track and lofts a straight drive for six to make it 18 from the over.\"An hour early isn't embarassing,\" writes Gary Naylor. \"I once turned up a whole day early for a ferry to Bergen and had to invest in a Whitley Bay BandB.\" 10.40am BST Al-Amin Hossain is, as usual, the other opening bowler, which means seam from both ends. The pitch looks so slow that it might be difficult to get the ball away to the fence here, as it could well stick in the pitch. The batsmen are happy to get on to the front foot, work the ball into the gaps here and run the singles quickly. Al-Amin strays on to Shehzad's pads with a full one and fine leg is up, so the batsman easily flicks it over him for four.The risk on these pitches is that if you drop short the batsman will have all the time in the world to flay it wherever and Al-Amin over-compensates with the penultimate ball, which is driven back past him for four more. 10.36am BST Mashrafe Mortaza, who has spearheaded Bangladesh's attack since 1904, is opening the bowling to the out-of-form Shehzad under the watchful eyes of Richard Kettleborough and Ian Gould. Pakistan get off the mark thanks to a misfield at square leg; Bangladesh's fielding hasn't been good so far in this tournament and that's an ominous portent. There's absolutely nothing on offer for the bowlers on what looks to be a featherbed and, after a couple of leaves, I can't imagine that Akmal will need long to get his eye in here. Oh I say that and he's beaten all ends up here by one angled in, the crooked bat wafting miles from both body and ball and it passes low over the stumps. Wide filth for the final ball though and it's cut hard to the point boundary. 10.29am BST Which means we'll begin in a couple of minutes. What do we reckon a good score for Pakistan will be? They're capable of getting 180+, especially if Umar Akmal continues the form he showed against Australia, although I doubt they'll need that many. Anything over 160 should be defended comfortably enough. 10.19am BST \"Hi Dan,\" begins this email from Zeeshan Ahmad. \"Any news on the Pakistan flag being allowed inside the stadium? Last I heard they had been banned by the Bangladesh Cricket Board authorities.\"I'd not heard about this, but there appears to be something to it. Specifically, Bangladeshis are banned from carrying the flags of any other nation into the ground, so it's not a Pakistan-specific thing. 10.06am BST They're both in the bowling department too: Sohail Tanvir comes in for Bilawal Bhatti for Pakistan, while for Bangladesh, Abdur Razzak replaces Sohag Gazi.Updated at 10.06am BST 10.05am BST Bangladesh: Tamim Iqbal, Anamul Haque, Shamsur Rahman, Shakib Al Hasan, Mushfiqur Rahim*\u2020, Nasir Hossain, Mahmudullah, Ziaur Rahman, Mashrafe Mortaza, Abdur Razzak, Al-Amin HossainPakistan: Kamran Akmal\u2020, Ahmed Shehzad, Mohammad Hafeez*, Umar Akmal, Shoaib Malik, Sohaib Maqsood, Shahid Afridi, Sohail Tanvir, Umar Gul, Zulfiqar Babar, Saeed Ajmal 10.02am BST Pakistan have won that and will have a bat. 9.46am BST Perhaps surprisingly, Bangladesh can still qualify for the semi-finals. Beat Pakistan today and Australia on Tuesday and they'll have four points; if Pakistan beat the West Indies in the following game, then both of those teams will have the same and it all comes down to net run rate.The bad news is that Bangladesh's is now a miserable -2.204, largely thanks to that enormous 73-run defeat by the Windies \u2013 the second-highest in this competition overall and the highest in the main pool stage \u2013 and their chances of overhauling the West Indies' +1.223 are slightly on the slim side. Still, hope there! 9.24am BST I'm going to sheepishly get a coffee. You guys can get an extra hour's kip, I guess. 9.17am BST Bangladesh doesn't appear to have adjusted its clocks, unlike here, which means I'm an hour early. 9.07am BST Morning folks. Apologies but we don't have long to go until this one starts as it took me a while to get into the building this morning, so let's get on with it.Bangladesh been pretty dismal in hosting their own tournament. Never mind the lights going out regularly in Chittagong, nor the bizarre decision to hold day-night games in locations that become drenched with dew at night making bowling and catching near-impossible; they've been close to inept when it comes to actually playing\n\ncricket\n T20. It's three defeats in a row now, narrowly to lil' ol' Hong Kong then utter spankings by the West Indies and India. Captain Mushfiqur Rahim has urged players to play their natural game, but if this is that then things do not bode well for Bangladeshi cricket.You'd say that their best chance of a win comes in today's game against Pakistan, although Bangladesh have never beaten these opponents in this format. Still, Mohammed Hafeez's side were equally inept against India \u2013 indeed they posted a lower total \u2013 but, as shown with their win over Australia, are as erratic as ever. You'd make Pakistan the heavy, heavy favourites today, but a defeat would send them out. Win on the other hand, and it's an effective quarter-final with the West Indies for them in Mirpur on Tuesday.Much credit has to be given to the Bangladesh fans for pushing the big button marked \"atmosphere\" in this tournament so far in spite of their team's and the organisers' attempts to quash a potentially wonderful tournament. The team owes them a performance and today, against their Asian rivals, might be the day to pull it out the bag.Play begins at 09.30am GMT. 9.07am BST Dan will be along from around 10am. ", "tags": ["World Twenty20 2014", "Bangladesh Cricket Team", "Pakistan cricket team", "Cricket", "Twenty20", "World Twenty20", "Over by over reports"], "title": "Bangladesh v Pakistan: World Twenty20 \u2013 as it happened | Dan Lucas"},{"date": "2014-03-25T14:24:32Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The unusual night-time kidnapping and brutal murder of a female polio vaccinator in the troubled Pakistani city of Peshawar has heightened fears among health workers struggling to stamp out the virus in the face of violent opposition from militant groups.The body of Salma Farooqi, a 30-year-old who had been involved for years in Peshawar's battle against polio, was recovered from a field 4km (2.5 miles) from her home on Monday, a day after armed men stormed her house, tied up family members and took her away.Police said the mother of five had been tortured and repeatedly shot.Attacks on vaccination teams, many of whom are drawn from the country's 100,000 strong army of \"Lady Health Workers\", are common, with more than 30 killed in the last two years. But attacks at their homes are almost unheard of.Family members said armed men entered the house at about 1am on Sunday morning, after some of them climbed over the boundary wall of the building in Gulozai village on the edge of the frontier city of Peshawar.\"Salma was fast asleep next to me when the men came in, beat me and tied me and the children up,\" said her husband, Mohammad Karim Khan. \"It took us an hour to free ourselves and then we saw that Salma had disappeared.\"Ihsan Shah, the police inspector responsible for the neighbourhood, said it was premature to speculate about the possible motives of the attackers.But Tariq Khan, an uncle of the dead woman, said he was convinced she was targeted for her work.\"We have no enmity with anyone, but she had been taking part in the polio vaccination campaign for several years,\" he said. \"The government only provide security during the vaccination work because they are being paid millions of dollars by the international community.\"The day before her violent abduction, Farooqi took part in a polio campaign, part of a massive effort by the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province to stamp out the crippling disease.Peshawar was recently named by the World Health Organisation as the \"largest reservoir of endemic polio virus in the world\".Each weekend for three months up to 8,000 vaccinators are attempting to give oral polio drops to almost every child aged under five in the city.As in other parts of the country, the threat of attacks by militants has forced health workers to be accompanied by armed police as they go door-to-door looking for children to inoculate against a disease that has been eradicated in almost every other country in the world.Militants are deeply suspicious of the vaccinations, which have been demonised by radical clerics as supposedly part of a western plot to sterilise Muslim children.They also fear the campaigns could be used as a cover for spies. In 2012, Taliban commanders in Waziristan, a tribal area bordering Afghanistan, banned polio teams until US drone strikes came to an end.Mohammad Tahir, a national spokesman for the country's Lady Health Workers, said a committee had been launched to investigate whether Farooqi had been killed because of her work.\"The killing has created an even greater sense of fear,\" said Tahir. \"We have to have better security.\"", "tags": ["Polio", "Pakistan", "World news", "Health", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan polio vaccinator's murder by militants raises health workers' fears"},{"date": "2014-06-15T04:57:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani fighter jets launched air strikes early on Sunday against militant hideouts in the country's troubled north-west, killing dozens of insurgents, local security officials said.The strikes primarily targeted Uzbek fighters in the mountainous Dehgan area, 16 miles (25km) west of Miranshah, the main town of North Waziristan tribal district and a stronghold for Taliban and al-Qaida linked militants on the border with Afghanistan.\"The strikes were carried out based on confirmed reports about the presence of Uzbek and other militants in the area,\" an official told Agence France-Presse.The latest bombing runs come a week after after militants conducted an all-night siege of Karachi airport, killing 38 people and all but destroying a tentative peace process between the Pakistani Taliban (TTP) and the government.The Associated Press said Abu Abdul Rehman al-Maani, believed to have helped orchestrate the five-hour airport siege, was thought to be among the dead from Sunday's air strikesFollowing the assault in Karachi the US carried out two drone strikes in North Waziristan on Wednesday, the first time the unmanned attacks have been undertaken this year. The same day Pakistani air force jets pounded suspected militant hideouts, leaving at least 25 dead. Pressure has been mounting on the Pakistani government to launch a ground offensive.No precise death toll from Sunday's air strikes was immediately available as they took place overnight in a remote location. But a local security official told AFP that \"dozens of militants have been killed and eight of their hideouts have been destroyed\". The Associated Press said officials gave a death toll of around 100. There were competing reports about the identities of those killed but a second intelligence official in Miranshah told AFP that Uzbek fighters had been targeted. \"Uzbek fighters had gathered in the area, they were taking rest when jets hit them,\" he said, adding that hideouts of local Taliban and other foreign fighters were also targeted.Both the Pakistani Taliban and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan \u2013 an al-Qaida affiliate mainly based in Pakistan's tribal belt \u2013 said Uzbek fighters took part in the Karachi airport assault.Locals in Pakistan's tribal regions say some of the world's most feared Islamist fighters are quietly slipping away from the area in anticipation of an increase in military operations against them.Rumours of a ground offensive in North Waziristan, one of seven tribal regions along the border, have abounded for years. But authorities have held back from a final push, fearing the blowback in Pakistan's major cities such as Karachi.The past week has seen a significant increase in air strikes and renewed drone attacks. Washington reportedly suspended its drone programme in December to give Islamabad time to pursue a dialogue process with the TTP aimed at ending a seven-year insurgency that has claimed thousands of lives.The dialogue resulted in a month-long ceasefire between March and April but later broke down, with Pakistan resuming air strikes on suspected militant hideouts in the tribal areas.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan bombs militant targets in North Waziristan"},{"date": "2014-06-15T04:57:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani fighter jets launched air strikes early on Sunday against militant hideouts in the country's troubled north-west, killing dozens of insurgents, local security officials said.The strikes primarily targeted Uzbek fighters in the mountainous Dehgan area, 16 miles (25km) west of Miranshah, the main town of North Waziristan tribal district and a stronghold for Taliban and al-Qaida linked militants on the border with Afghanistan.\"The strikes were carried out based on confirmed reports about the presence of Uzbek and other militants in the area,\" an official told Agence France-Presse.The latest bombing runs come a week after after militants conducted an all-night siege of Karachi airport, killing 38 people and all but destroying a tentative peace process between the Pakistani Taliban (TTP) and the government.The Associated Press said Abu Abdul Rehman al-Maani, believed to have helped orchestrate the five-hour airport siege, was thought to be among the dead from Sunday's air strikesFollowing the assault in Karachi the US carried out two drone strikes in North Waziristan on Wednesday, the first time the unmanned attacks have been undertaken this year. The same day Pakistani air force jets pounded suspected militant hideouts, leaving at least 25 dead. Pressure has been mounting on the Pakistani government to launch a ground offensive.No precise death toll from Sunday's air strikes was immediately available as they took place overnight in a remote location. But a local security official told AFP that \"dozens of militants have been killed and eight of their hideouts have been destroyed\". The Associated Press said officials gave a death toll of around 100. There were competing reports about the identities of those killed but a second intelligence official in Miranshah told AFP that Uzbek fighters had been targeted. \"Uzbek fighters had gathered in the area, they were taking rest when jets hit them,\" he said, adding that hideouts of local Taliban and other foreign fighters were also targeted.Both the Pakistani Taliban and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan \u2013 an al-Qaida affiliate mainly based in Pakistan's tribal belt \u2013 said Uzbek fighters took part in the Karachi airport assault.Locals in Pakistan's tribal regions say some of the world's most feared Islamist fighters are quietly slipping away from the area in anticipation of an increase in military operations against them.Rumours of a ground offensive in North Waziristan, one of seven tribal regions along the border, have abounded for years. But authorities have held back from a final push, fearing the blowback in Pakistan's major cities such as Karachi.The past week has seen a significant increase in air strikes and renewed drone attacks. Washington reportedly suspended its drone programme in December to give Islamabad time to pursue a dialogue process with the TTP aimed at ending a seven-year insurgency that has claimed thousands of lives.The dialogue resulted in a month-long ceasefire between March and April but later broke down, with Pakistan resuming air strikes on suspected militant hideouts in the tribal areas.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan bombs militant targets in North Waziristan"},{"date": "2014-05-30T18:28:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The policeman in charge of the investigation into the bludgeoning to death of a pregnant woman on the streets of one of Pakistan's major cities has questioned whether her death is any more serious than any other murder he deals with, in comments likely to raise further concerns over how the country deals with so-called \"honour killings\".Three days after Farzana Parveen was murdered by a 20-strong mob of her own relatives, the official report has exonerated officers over the failure to stop the killing, which took place close to Lahore's high court. It claims Parveen had illegally remarried.\"How is this murder any more serious than all the other cases we deal with?\" said Zulfiqar Hameed, the senior officer in charge of the investigation. He said he was outraged by international media reports that suggested police stood by and did nothing.He said international condemnation had been overdone, and that the world failed to understand the cultural context in which the crime had taken place.\"These people come from a village, you can't expect them to act as if they were on Oxford Street,\" he said.The report, produced after global anger prompted Pakistan's prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to order an urgent inquiry, contradicts numerous claims from witnesses and Parveen's husband, Muhammad Iqbal, who said police at the scene refused to help him despite his desperate pleas.It says the attack happened 300 yards from the entrance to the high court, where no police were on duty. Nonetheless, one officer who happened to be passing managed to grab a pistol that had been used to shoot at Parveen; he was apparently unable to stop her relatives from picking up bricks with which they beat her to death.Hameed referred to statements by western governments, including foreign secretary William Hague, as \"cultural imperialism\" and the \"white man's burden\".There have only been a scattering of small public demonstrations against the case and domestic media largely ignored the story until the prime minister ordered the inquiry.The hastily prepared report, seen by the Guardian, appears to attempt to give some justification for the murder, claiming Parveen was already legally married to a cousin, called Mazher Iqbal. He was among the attackers who ambushed and killed her as she walked from her lawyer's office to the entrance of the high court.\"Getting married for a second time was both illegal and immoral,\" Hameed said.Iqbal claims Parveen's father supported his marriage to Parveen, only later changing his mind when he demanded more money than had originally been agreed.The report says Iqbal got to know Parveen during a long period when he was in hiding from the police following the murder of his first wife \u2013 a crime he admitted to journalists this week.The police report, which was delivered to the chief minister of Punjab province, confirms Iqbal was later excused for his crime after members of his own family agreed to forgive him under controversial sharia law-inspired provisions in Pakistan's legal system.Pakistan's usually voluble religious clerics have also remained largely silent, with the exception of Tahir Ashrafi, a high profile mullah known for his unusual liberal stance on many issues.On Friday he circulated a \"fatwa\" declaring \"the killing of girls in the name of honour or dignity is terrorism and viciousness \u2013 which has nothing to do with Islam\".\"The government and judiciary have the responsibility to punish in the harshest possible way those guilty of committing this crime,\" it said.It was a step welcomed by Tahira Abdullah, a prominent human rights activist. But she acknowledged that the response to the crime within Pakistan had been disappointing.\"We will never see any reaction from the rural areas, you can forget that,\" she said. \"But my expectations are now so lowered that any statement or demonstration is like manna from heaven.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'honour killing' inquiry exonerates police"},{"date": "2014-06-15T04:57:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani fighter jets launched air strikes early on Sunday against militant hideouts in the country's troubled north-west, killing dozens of insurgents, local security officials said.The strikes primarily targeted Uzbek fighters in the mountainous Dehgan area, 16 miles (25km) west of Miranshah, the main town of North Waziristan tribal district and a stronghold for Taliban and al-Qaida linked militants on the border with Afghanistan.\"The strikes were carried out based on confirmed reports about the presence of Uzbek and other militants in the area,\" an official told Agence France-Presse.The latest bombing runs come a week after after militants conducted an all-night siege of Karachi airport, killing 38 people and all but destroying a tentative peace process between the Pakistani Taliban (TTP) and the government.The Associated Press said Abu Abdul Rehman al-Maani, believed to have helped orchestrate the five-hour airport siege, was thought to be among the dead from Sunday's air strikesFollowing the assault in Karachi the US carried out two drone strikes in North Waziristan on Wednesday, the first time the unmanned attacks have been undertaken this year. The same day Pakistani air force jets pounded suspected militant hideouts, leaving at least 25 dead. Pressure has been mounting on the Pakistani government to launch a ground offensive.No precise death toll from Sunday's air strikes was immediately available as they took place overnight in a remote location. But a local security official told AFP that \"dozens of militants have been killed and eight of their hideouts have been destroyed\". The Associated Press said officials gave a death toll of around 100. There were competing reports about the identities of those killed but a second intelligence official in Miranshah told AFP that Uzbek fighters had been targeted. \"Uzbek fighters had gathered in the area, they were taking rest when jets hit them,\" he said, adding that hideouts of local Taliban and other foreign fighters were also targeted.Both the Pakistani Taliban and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan \u2013 an al-Qaida affiliate mainly based in Pakistan's tribal belt \u2013 said Uzbek fighters took part in the Karachi airport assault.Locals in Pakistan's tribal regions say some of the world's most feared Islamist fighters are quietly slipping away from the area in anticipation of an increase in military operations against them.Rumours of a ground offensive in North Waziristan, one of seven tribal regions along the border, have abounded for years. But authorities have held back from a final push, fearing the blowback in Pakistan's major cities such as Karachi.The past week has seen a significant increase in air strikes and renewed drone attacks. Washington reportedly suspended its drone programme in December to give Islamabad time to pursue a dialogue process with the TTP aimed at ending a seven-year insurgency that has claimed thousands of lives.The dialogue resulted in a month-long ceasefire between March and April but later broke down, with Pakistan resuming air strikes on suspected militant hideouts in the tribal areas.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan bombs militant targets in North Waziristan"},{"date": "2014-05-30T18:28:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The policeman in charge of the investigation into the bludgeoning to death of a pregnant woman on the streets of one of Pakistan's major cities has questioned whether her death is any more serious than any other murder he deals with, in comments likely to raise further concerns over how the country deals with so-called \"honour killings\".Three days after Farzana Parveen was murdered by a 20-strong mob of her own relatives, the official report has exonerated officers over the failure to stop the killing, which took place close to Lahore's high court. It claims Parveen had illegally remarried.\"How is this murder any more serious than all the other cases we deal with?\" said Zulfiqar Hameed, the senior officer in charge of the investigation. He said he was outraged by international media reports that suggested police stood by and did nothing.He said international condemnation had been overdone, and that the world failed to understand the cultural context in which the crime had taken place.\"These people come from a village, you can't expect them to act as if they were on Oxford Street,\" he said.The report, produced after global anger prompted Pakistan's prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to order an urgent inquiry, contradicts numerous claims from witnesses and Parveen's husband, Muhammad Iqbal, who said police at the scene refused to help him despite his desperate pleas.It says the attack happened 300 yards from the entrance to the high court, where no police were on duty. Nonetheless, one officer who happened to be passing managed to grab a pistol that had been used to shoot at Parveen; he was apparently unable to stop her relatives from picking up bricks with which they beat her to death.Hameed referred to statements by western governments, including foreign secretary William Hague, as \"cultural imperialism\" and the \"white man's burden\".There have only been a scattering of small public demonstrations against the case and domestic media largely ignored the story until the prime minister ordered the inquiry.The hastily prepared report, seen by the Guardian, appears to attempt to give some justification for the murder, claiming Parveen was already legally married to a cousin, called Mazher Iqbal. He was among the attackers who ambushed and killed her as she walked from her lawyer's office to the entrance of the high court.\"Getting married for a second time was both illegal and immoral,\" Hameed said.Iqbal claims Parveen's father supported his marriage to Parveen, only later changing his mind when he demanded more money than had originally been agreed.The report says Iqbal got to know Parveen during a long period when he was in hiding from the police following the murder of his first wife \u2013 a crime he admitted to journalists this week.The police report, which was delivered to the chief minister of Punjab province, confirms Iqbal was later excused for his crime after members of his own family agreed to forgive him under controversial sharia law-inspired provisions in Pakistan's legal system.Pakistan's usually voluble religious clerics have also remained largely silent, with the exception of Tahir Ashrafi, a high profile mullah known for his unusual liberal stance on many issues.On Friday he circulated a \"fatwa\" declaring \"the killing of girls in the name of honour or dignity is terrorism and viciousness \u2013 which has nothing to do with Islam\".\"The government and judiciary have the responsibility to punish in the harshest possible way those guilty of committing this crime,\" it said.It was a step welcomed by Tahira Abdullah, a prominent human rights activist. But she acknowledged that the response to the crime within Pakistan had been disappointing.\"We will never see any reaction from the rural areas, you can forget that,\" she said. \"But my expectations are now so lowered that any statement or demonstration is like manna from heaven.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'honour killing' inquiry exonerates police"},{"date": "2014-05-14T15:14:51Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The only two Indian journalists working in Pakistan have been ordered out of the country despite the Islamabad government's professed desire for better relations with India and the probable election this week of a new government in New Delhi led by a Hindu nationalist party.The two journalists had been working under tight restrictions in Pakistan's capital for less than a year when they were informed that their visas would not be renewed and they must leave the country by next Tuesday. Meena Menon from the Hindu and Snehesh Alex Philip of the Press Trust of India were not given any explanation of why they had to leave.The two governments allow for a limited number of journalists from the other country to work inside their borders, although no Pakistani news organisation has taken up the offer in recent years.Indian journalists working in Pakistan have complained of living under heavy surveillance and being denied permission to travel outside Islamabad.The expulsions come despite the ambition of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to improve relations between the two countries, which have gone to war four times since gaining independence from Britain in 1947. During last year's election campaign, he went out of his way to give interviews with visiting Indian journalists in which he called for greater trade and cooperation.If Sharif is to deliver on his promises, he will most likely have to deal with a government led by Bharatiya Janata, the Hindu nationalist party that appears set to sweep to power after 10 years in opposition.Exit polls published this week predict a huge win for the BJP, led by the controversial and polarising Narendra Modi, when the results are announced by election authorities on Friday. Such polls have been wrong on several previous occasions, however, and officials of the Congress party, in power since 2004, say they expect to be able to continue in government after forming alliances with smaller parties.Modi's potential foreign policy has caused anxiety and hope among regional observers. Many fear he might react badly to any incident of terrorism within India, routinely blamed on Pakistan, or a flare-up over the disputed territory of Kashmir. Others say he has the nationalist credentials to conclude a lasting peace agreement with Pakistan and point to the example of the last BJP prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee.The Indian ministry of foreign affairs said the expulsions were regrettable. \"It is ... unfortunate that the two Indian correspondents in Pakistan have been asked to leave prematurely and suddenly only a few months after their arrival,\" the ministry said in a statement.\"Not allowing independent journalists to function is a retrograde step, especially as free flow of information between India and Pakistan has long been recognised as an important confidence building measure.\"Murtaza Solangi, a former head of state-run Radio Pakistan, said he feared the decision to send the pair out of the country was a sign the country's powerful military establishment was reasserting its claim over key areas of foreign policy, in particular the relationship with India.\"It seems like foreign policy and national security is going out of the domain of Mr Sharif,\" he said. \"The government has been told these things are not your job.\"The army is thought to be resistant to making any concessions to India while the two sides continue to disagree on intractable disputes, in particular the status of the disputed former princely state of Kashmir.The Sharif government has already shelved plans to grant India a \"most favoured nation\" trade deal that would help to boost the very limited commerce between the two countries.Despite repeated public promises by the prime minister to look into the case of Declan Walsh, a New York Times journalist expelled shortly before Sharif's election, the veteran Pakistan correspondent has not been allowed to return.Mehmal Sarfraz, deputy secretary general of the South Asia Free Media Association, said: \"What kind of message are they trying to send by expelling these two in this unceremonious way, just before a new government comes to power in Delhi? The timing is very suspicious.\"", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Indian journalists ordered out of Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-06-15T04:57:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani fighter jets launched air strikes early on Sunday against militant hideouts in the country's troubled north-west, killing dozens of insurgents, local security officials said.The strikes primarily targeted Uzbek fighters in the mountainous Dehgan area, 16 miles (25km) west of Miranshah, the main town of North Waziristan tribal district and a stronghold for Taliban and al-Qaida linked militants on the border with Afghanistan.\"The strikes were carried out based on confirmed reports about the presence of Uzbek and other militants in the area,\" an official told Agence France-Presse.The latest bombing runs come a week after after militants conducted an all-night siege of Karachi airport, killing 38 people and all but destroying a tentative peace process between the Pakistani Taliban (TTP) and the government.The Associated Press said Abu Abdul Rehman al-Maani, believed to have helped orchestrate the five-hour airport siege, was thought to be among the dead from Sunday's air strikesFollowing the assault in Karachi the US carried out two drone strikes in North Waziristan on Wednesday, the first time the unmanned attacks have been undertaken this year. The same day Pakistani air force jets pounded suspected militant hideouts, leaving at least 25 dead. Pressure has been mounting on the Pakistani government to launch a ground offensive.No precise death toll from Sunday's air strikes was immediately available as they took place overnight in a remote location. But a local security official told AFP that \"dozens of militants have been killed and eight of their hideouts have been destroyed\". The Associated Press said officials gave a death toll of around 100. There were competing reports about the identities of those killed but a second intelligence official in Miranshah told AFP that Uzbek fighters had been targeted. \"Uzbek fighters had gathered in the area, they were taking rest when jets hit them,\" he said, adding that hideouts of local Taliban and other foreign fighters were also targeted.Both the Pakistani Taliban and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan \u2013 an al-Qaida affiliate mainly based in Pakistan's tribal belt \u2013 said Uzbek fighters took part in the Karachi airport assault.Locals in Pakistan's tribal regions say some of the world's most feared Islamist fighters are quietly slipping away from the area in anticipation of an increase in military operations against them.Rumours of a ground offensive in North Waziristan, one of seven tribal regions along the border, have abounded for years. But authorities have held back from a final push, fearing the blowback in Pakistan's major cities such as Karachi.The past week has seen a significant increase in air strikes and renewed drone attacks. Washington reportedly suspended its drone programme in December to give Islamabad time to pursue a dialogue process with the TTP aimed at ending a seven-year insurgency that has claimed thousands of lives.The dialogue resulted in a month-long ceasefire between March and April but later broke down, with Pakistan resuming air strikes on suspected militant hideouts in the tribal areas.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan bombs militant targets in North Waziristan"},{"date": "2014-05-30T18:28:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The policeman in charge of the investigation into the bludgeoning to death of a pregnant woman on the streets of one of Pakistan's major cities has questioned whether her death is any more serious than any other murder he deals with, in comments likely to raise further concerns over how the country deals with so-called \"honour killings\".Three days after Farzana Parveen was murdered by a 20-strong mob of her own relatives, the official report has exonerated officers over the failure to stop the killing, which took place close to Lahore's high court. It claims Parveen had illegally remarried.\"How is this murder any more serious than all the other cases we deal with?\" said Zulfiqar Hameed, the senior officer in charge of the investigation. He said he was outraged by international media reports that suggested police stood by and did nothing.He said international condemnation had been overdone, and that the world failed to understand the cultural context in which the crime had taken place.\"These people come from a village, you can't expect them to act as if they were on Oxford Street,\" he said.The report, produced after global anger prompted Pakistan's prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to order an urgent inquiry, contradicts numerous claims from witnesses and Parveen's husband, Muhammad Iqbal, who said police at the scene refused to help him despite his desperate pleas.It says the attack happened 300 yards from the entrance to the high court, where no police were on duty. Nonetheless, one officer who happened to be passing managed to grab a pistol that had been used to shoot at Parveen; he was apparently unable to stop her relatives from picking up bricks with which they beat her to death.Hameed referred to statements by western governments, including foreign secretary William Hague, as \"cultural imperialism\" and the \"white man's burden\".There have only been a scattering of small public demonstrations against the case and domestic media largely ignored the story until the prime minister ordered the inquiry.The hastily prepared report, seen by the Guardian, appears to attempt to give some justification for the murder, claiming Parveen was already legally married to a cousin, called Mazher Iqbal. He was among the attackers who ambushed and killed her as she walked from her lawyer's office to the entrance of the high court.\"Getting married for a second time was both illegal and immoral,\" Hameed said.Iqbal claims Parveen's father supported his marriage to Parveen, only later changing his mind when he demanded more money than had originally been agreed.The report says Iqbal got to know Parveen during a long period when he was in hiding from the police following the murder of his first wife \u2013 a crime he admitted to journalists this week.The police report, which was delivered to the chief minister of Punjab province, confirms Iqbal was later excused for his crime after members of his own family agreed to forgive him under controversial sharia law-inspired provisions in Pakistan's legal system.Pakistan's usually voluble religious clerics have also remained largely silent, with the exception of Tahir Ashrafi, a high profile mullah known for his unusual liberal stance on many issues.On Friday he circulated a \"fatwa\" declaring \"the killing of girls in the name of honour or dignity is terrorism and viciousness \u2013 which has nothing to do with Islam\".\"The government and judiciary have the responsibility to punish in the harshest possible way those guilty of committing this crime,\" it said.It was a step welcomed by Tahira Abdullah, a prominent human rights activist. But she acknowledged that the response to the crime within Pakistan had been disappointing.\"We will never see any reaction from the rural areas, you can forget that,\" she said. \"But my expectations are now so lowered that any statement or demonstration is like manna from heaven.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'honour killing' inquiry exonerates police"},{"date": "2014-05-14T15:14:51Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The only two Indian journalists working in Pakistan have been ordered out of the country despite the Islamabad government's professed desire for better relations with India and the probable election this week of a new government in New Delhi led by a Hindu nationalist party.The two journalists had been working under tight restrictions in Pakistan's capital for less than a year when they were informed that their visas would not be renewed and they must leave the country by next Tuesday. Meena Menon from the Hindu and Snehesh Alex Philip of the Press Trust of India were not given any explanation of why they had to leave.The two governments allow for a limited number of journalists from the other country to work inside their borders, although no Pakistani news organisation has taken up the offer in recent years.Indian journalists working in Pakistan have complained of living under heavy surveillance and being denied permission to travel outside Islamabad.The expulsions come despite the ambition of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to improve relations between the two countries, which have gone to war four times since gaining independence from Britain in 1947. During last year's election campaign, he went out of his way to give interviews with visiting Indian journalists in which he called for greater trade and cooperation.If Sharif is to deliver on his promises, he will most likely have to deal with a government led by Bharatiya Janata, the Hindu nationalist party that appears set to sweep to power after 10 years in opposition.Exit polls published this week predict a huge win for the BJP, led by the controversial and polarising Narendra Modi, when the results are announced by election authorities on Friday. Such polls have been wrong on several previous occasions, however, and officials of the Congress party, in power since 2004, say they expect to be able to continue in government after forming alliances with smaller parties.Modi's potential foreign policy has caused anxiety and hope among regional observers. Many fear he might react badly to any incident of terrorism within India, routinely blamed on Pakistan, or a flare-up over the disputed territory of Kashmir. Others say he has the nationalist credentials to conclude a lasting peace agreement with Pakistan and point to the example of the last BJP prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee.The Indian ministry of foreign affairs said the expulsions were regrettable. \"It is ... unfortunate that the two Indian correspondents in Pakistan have been asked to leave prematurely and suddenly only a few months after their arrival,\" the ministry said in a statement.\"Not allowing independent journalists to function is a retrograde step, especially as free flow of information between India and Pakistan has long been recognised as an important confidence building measure.\"Murtaza Solangi, a former head of state-run Radio Pakistan, said he feared the decision to send the pair out of the country was a sign the country's powerful military establishment was reasserting its claim over key areas of foreign policy, in particular the relationship with India.\"It seems like foreign policy and national security is going out of the domain of Mr Sharif,\" he said. \"The government has been told these things are not your job.\"The army is thought to be resistant to making any concessions to India while the two sides continue to disagree on intractable disputes, in particular the status of the disputed former princely state of Kashmir.The Sharif government has already shelved plans to grant India a \"most favoured nation\" trade deal that would help to boost the very limited commerce between the two countries.Despite repeated public promises by the prime minister to look into the case of Declan Walsh, a New York Times journalist expelled shortly before Sharif's election, the veteran Pakistan correspondent has not been allowed to return.Mehmal Sarfraz, deputy secretary general of the South Asia Free Media Association, said: \"What kind of message are they trying to send by expelling these two in this unceremonious way, just before a new government comes to power in Delhi? The timing is very suspicious.\"", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Indian journalists ordered out of Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-06-26T17:38:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "That Pakistan's army was likely to unleash a military onslaught against Taliban safe havens near the Afghan border has been an open secret for months. But authorities have been condemned for a lack of preparedness for the inevitable exodus of refugees, now living in miserable conditions after fleeing fighting in North Waziristan.About 466,000 people have poured out of the tribal agency bordering Afghanistan following the start on 15 June of a long-awaited effort to stamp out the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups who have made the region their home. There was little infrastructure awaiting the internally displaced people (IDPs) who continue to enter Bannu, a district among one of Pakistan's least developed.Soldiers have fired live rounds to deter furious crowds of IDPs, who complain there is no shelter, not enough to eat and that they have been barred from moving to other areas of Pakistan.Ghani Rahman, waiting at an aid distribution point in Bannu, said the government had offered nothing.\"This food is not from the Pakistan government, it is from the WFP,\" said the 55-year-old, referring to the UN's World Food Programme. \"We are very thankful to the WFP because otherwise my family could not survive.\"Other groups stepping in to fill the gap with humanitarian assistance include foreign government aid agencies and wealthy Pakistani businessmen.IDPs complain of people charging extortionate rent for basic shelter and Islamabad's failure to hand over promised financial handouts.Although a temporary camp has been set up in the nearby \"frontier region\", few have been willing to move there, arguing it is insecure. Many have instead commandeered space in government schools and colleges.Dawn, one of Pakistan's leading newspapers, described the relief effort \"as one of the more miserable and haphazard IDP management programmes in memory\".The military effort, dubbed Operation Zarb-e-Azb, had long been expected following the predicted breakdown of government efforts to negotiate a peace deal with the Taliban.It is only the latest in a number of operations launched against militant havens over the years, all of which have created large number of refugees.\"North Waziristan has been on the anvil for a very, very long time and the government should have been prepared for every eventuality,\" said Afrasiab Khattak, a senator for the state in which Bannu is located. \"Unfortunately in our country we only think of military aspects of an operation and no one bothers with the humanitarian crisis.\"The IDPs have also complained of being stopped from moving into other provinces \u2013 an illegal restriction on their right to free movement within the country.Khattack said such behaviour would deepen grievances among Pashtuns, the ethnic group that dominates the tribal north-west of the country.\"People say IDP really only stands for 'internally displaced Pashtun',\" he said. \"Pashtuns are discriminated against by the rulers who regard the peripheries of the country as dispensable.\"Some Pakistanis have been shocked that around 70,000 North Waziris opted to move into the eastern Afghan provinces of Khost and Paktika rather than Pakistan.Traditionally the flow of refugees has been the other way: millions of Afghans fled to Pakistan during the Soviet occupation of the 1980s and the civil war of the 1990s, and around 2.5 million have still not returned to Afghanistan.Bo Schack, the head of the UN refugees agency in Kabul, said the movement of IDPs into Afghanistan was \"somewhat of a surprise. This is certainly the first time ever we are seeing large scale movement over to Khost and Paktika.\"The refugees had been accommodated by locals and the Afghan authorities \"in a very positive way\", he added.After weeks of air strikes against what were described as terrorist camps, the Pakistani army said on Wednesday that it had begun shelling Miranshah, the North Waziristan capital. The military claims it has so far killed 361 militants, although such claims are impossible to verify.A large ground offensive had been delayed while the army sought to evacuate civilians from the area. Although military checkpoints were designed to trap militants inside the tribal agency, it is likely many have slipped through hidden among civilians.While IDPs who spoke to the Guardian all hoped to return home in a matter of months, the army is likely to encounter stiff resistance in the weeks to come. Nearly all of the previous operations mounted against militants have left thousands permanently cut off from their home.Most glaring are the people displaced by a massive operation in South Waziristan in 2009 which Pakistan's army has long hailed as a success. Many are yet to return to their homes.Khalid Munir, a retired colonel who served in the tribal region, said a successful operation in the last of the Taliban's safe havens would bring long-awaited security to neighbouring Southern Waziristan too. \"The foreign militants remaining in North Waziristan have nowhere to run,\" he said. \"They will have to fight, allowing the operation to move much faster than in South Waziristan.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Refugees", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan 'unprepared' for refugees fleeing operation against Taliban"},{"date": "2014-06-15T04:57:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani fighter jets launched air strikes early on Sunday against militant hideouts in the country's troubled north-west, killing dozens of insurgents, local security officials said.The strikes primarily targeted Uzbek fighters in the mountainous Dehgan area, 16 miles (25km) west of Miranshah, the main town of North Waziristan tribal district and a stronghold for Taliban and al-Qaida linked militants on the border with Afghanistan.\"The strikes were carried out based on confirmed reports about the presence of Uzbek and other militants in the area,\" an official told Agence France-Presse.The latest bombing runs come a week after after militants conducted an all-night siege of Karachi airport, killing 38 people and all but destroying a tentative peace process between the Pakistani Taliban (TTP) and the government.The Associated Press said Abu Abdul Rehman al-Maani, believed to have helped orchestrate the five-hour airport siege, was thought to be among the dead from Sunday's air strikesFollowing the assault in Karachi the US carried out two drone strikes in North Waziristan on Wednesday, the first time the unmanned attacks have been undertaken this year. The same day Pakistani air force jets pounded suspected militant hideouts, leaving at least 25 dead. Pressure has been mounting on the Pakistani government to launch a ground offensive.No precise death toll from Sunday's air strikes was immediately available as they took place overnight in a remote location. But a local security official told AFP that \"dozens of militants have been killed and eight of their hideouts have been destroyed\". The Associated Press said officials gave a death toll of around 100. There were competing reports about the identities of those killed but a second intelligence official in Miranshah told AFP that Uzbek fighters had been targeted. \"Uzbek fighters had gathered in the area, they were taking rest when jets hit them,\" he said, adding that hideouts of local Taliban and other foreign fighters were also targeted.Both the Pakistani Taliban and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan \u2013 an al-Qaida affiliate mainly based in Pakistan's tribal belt \u2013 said Uzbek fighters took part in the Karachi airport assault.Locals in Pakistan's tribal regions say some of the world's most feared Islamist fighters are quietly slipping away from the area in anticipation of an increase in military operations against them.Rumours of a ground offensive in North Waziristan, one of seven tribal regions along the border, have abounded for years. But authorities have held back from a final push, fearing the blowback in Pakistan's major cities such as Karachi.The past week has seen a significant increase in air strikes and renewed drone attacks. Washington reportedly suspended its drone programme in December to give Islamabad time to pursue a dialogue process with the TTP aimed at ending a seven-year insurgency that has claimed thousands of lives.The dialogue resulted in a month-long ceasefire between March and April but later broke down, with Pakistan resuming air strikes on suspected militant hideouts in the tribal areas.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan bombs militant targets in North Waziristan"},{"date": "2014-05-30T18:28:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The policeman in charge of the investigation into the bludgeoning to death of a pregnant woman on the streets of one of Pakistan's major cities has questioned whether her death is any more serious than any other murder he deals with, in comments likely to raise further concerns over how the country deals with so-called \"honour killings\".Three days after Farzana Parveen was murdered by a 20-strong mob of her own relatives, the official report has exonerated officers over the failure to stop the killing, which took place close to Lahore's high court. It claims Parveen had illegally remarried.\"How is this murder any more serious than all the other cases we deal with?\" said Zulfiqar Hameed, the senior officer in charge of the investigation. He said he was outraged by international media reports that suggested police stood by and did nothing.He said international condemnation had been overdone, and that the world failed to understand the cultural context in which the crime had taken place.\"These people come from a village, you can't expect them to act as if they were on Oxford Street,\" he said.The report, produced after global anger prompted Pakistan's prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to order an urgent inquiry, contradicts numerous claims from witnesses and Parveen's husband, Muhammad Iqbal, who said police at the scene refused to help him despite his desperate pleas.It says the attack happened 300 yards from the entrance to the high court, where no police were on duty. Nonetheless, one officer who happened to be passing managed to grab a pistol that had been used to shoot at Parveen; he was apparently unable to stop her relatives from picking up bricks with which they beat her to death.Hameed referred to statements by western governments, including foreign secretary William Hague, as \"cultural imperialism\" and the \"white man's burden\".There have only been a scattering of small public demonstrations against the case and domestic media largely ignored the story until the prime minister ordered the inquiry.The hastily prepared report, seen by the Guardian, appears to attempt to give some justification for the murder, claiming Parveen was already legally married to a cousin, called Mazher Iqbal. He was among the attackers who ambushed and killed her as she walked from her lawyer's office to the entrance of the high court.\"Getting married for a second time was both illegal and immoral,\" Hameed said.Iqbal claims Parveen's father supported his marriage to Parveen, only later changing his mind when he demanded more money than had originally been agreed.The report says Iqbal got to know Parveen during a long period when he was in hiding from the police following the murder of his first wife \u2013 a crime he admitted to journalists this week.The police report, which was delivered to the chief minister of Punjab province, confirms Iqbal was later excused for his crime after members of his own family agreed to forgive him under controversial sharia law-inspired provisions in Pakistan's legal system.Pakistan's usually voluble religious clerics have also remained largely silent, with the exception of Tahir Ashrafi, a high profile mullah known for his unusual liberal stance on many issues.On Friday he circulated a \"fatwa\" declaring \"the killing of girls in the name of honour or dignity is terrorism and viciousness \u2013 which has nothing to do with Islam\".\"The government and judiciary have the responsibility to punish in the harshest possible way those guilty of committing this crime,\" it said.It was a step welcomed by Tahira Abdullah, a prominent human rights activist. But she acknowledged that the response to the crime within Pakistan had been disappointing.\"We will never see any reaction from the rural areas, you can forget that,\" she said. \"But my expectations are now so lowered that any statement or demonstration is like manna from heaven.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'honour killing' inquiry exonerates police"},{"date": "2014-05-14T15:14:51Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The only two Indian journalists working in Pakistan have been ordered out of the country despite the Islamabad government's professed desire for better relations with India and the probable election this week of a new government in New Delhi led by a Hindu nationalist party.The two journalists had been working under tight restrictions in Pakistan's capital for less than a year when they were informed that their visas would not be renewed and they must leave the country by next Tuesday. Meena Menon from the Hindu and Snehesh Alex Philip of the Press Trust of India were not given any explanation of why they had to leave.The two governments allow for a limited number of journalists from the other country to work inside their borders, although no Pakistani news organisation has taken up the offer in recent years.Indian journalists working in Pakistan have complained of living under heavy surveillance and being denied permission to travel outside Islamabad.The expulsions come despite the ambition of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to improve relations between the two countries, which have gone to war four times since gaining independence from Britain in 1947. During last year's election campaign, he went out of his way to give interviews with visiting Indian journalists in which he called for greater trade and cooperation.If Sharif is to deliver on his promises, he will most likely have to deal with a government led by Bharatiya Janata, the Hindu nationalist party that appears set to sweep to power after 10 years in opposition.Exit polls published this week predict a huge win for the BJP, led by the controversial and polarising Narendra Modi, when the results are announced by election authorities on Friday. Such polls have been wrong on several previous occasions, however, and officials of the Congress party, in power since 2004, say they expect to be able to continue in government after forming alliances with smaller parties.Modi's potential foreign policy has caused anxiety and hope among regional observers. Many fear he might react badly to any incident of terrorism within India, routinely blamed on Pakistan, or a flare-up over the disputed territory of Kashmir. Others say he has the nationalist credentials to conclude a lasting peace agreement with Pakistan and point to the example of the last BJP prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee.The Indian ministry of foreign affairs said the expulsions were regrettable. \"It is ... unfortunate that the two Indian correspondents in Pakistan have been asked to leave prematurely and suddenly only a few months after their arrival,\" the ministry said in a statement.\"Not allowing independent journalists to function is a retrograde step, especially as free flow of information between India and Pakistan has long been recognised as an important confidence building measure.\"Murtaza Solangi, a former head of state-run Radio Pakistan, said he feared the decision to send the pair out of the country was a sign the country's powerful military establishment was reasserting its claim over key areas of foreign policy, in particular the relationship with India.\"It seems like foreign policy and national security is going out of the domain of Mr Sharif,\" he said. \"The government has been told these things are not your job.\"The army is thought to be resistant to making any concessions to India while the two sides continue to disagree on intractable disputes, in particular the status of the disputed former princely state of Kashmir.The Sharif government has already shelved plans to grant India a \"most favoured nation\" trade deal that would help to boost the very limited commerce between the two countries.Despite repeated public promises by the prime minister to look into the case of Declan Walsh, a New York Times journalist expelled shortly before Sharif's election, the veteran Pakistan correspondent has not been allowed to return.Mehmal Sarfraz, deputy secretary general of the South Asia Free Media Association, said: \"What kind of message are they trying to send by expelling these two in this unceremonious way, just before a new government comes to power in Delhi? The timing is very suspicious.\"", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Indian journalists ordered out of Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-06-26T17:38:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "That Pakistan's army was likely to unleash a military onslaught against Taliban safe havens near the Afghan border has been an open secret for months. But authorities have been condemned for a lack of preparedness for the inevitable exodus of refugees, now living in miserable conditions after fleeing fighting in North Waziristan.About 466,000 people have poured out of the tribal agency bordering Afghanistan following the start on 15 June of a long-awaited effort to stamp out the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups who have made the region their home. There was little infrastructure awaiting the internally displaced people (IDPs) who continue to enter Bannu, a district among one of Pakistan's least developed.Soldiers have fired live rounds to deter furious crowds of IDPs, who complain there is no shelter, not enough to eat and that they have been barred from moving to other areas of Pakistan.Ghani Rahman, waiting at an aid distribution point in Bannu, said the government had offered nothing.\"This food is not from the Pakistan government, it is from the WFP,\" said the 55-year-old, referring to the UN's World Food Programme. \"We are very thankful to the WFP because otherwise my family could not survive.\"Other groups stepping in to fill the gap with humanitarian assistance include foreign government aid agencies and wealthy Pakistani businessmen.IDPs complain of people charging extortionate rent for basic shelter and Islamabad's failure to hand over promised financial handouts.Although a temporary camp has been set up in the nearby \"frontier region\", few have been willing to move there, arguing it is insecure. Many have instead commandeered space in government schools and colleges.Dawn, one of Pakistan's leading newspapers, described the relief effort \"as one of the more miserable and haphazard IDP management programmes in memory\".The military effort, dubbed Operation Zarb-e-Azb, had long been expected following the predicted breakdown of government efforts to negotiate a peace deal with the Taliban.It is only the latest in a number of operations launched against militant havens over the years, all of which have created large number of refugees.\"North Waziristan has been on the anvil for a very, very long time and the government should have been prepared for every eventuality,\" said Afrasiab Khattak, a senator for the state in which Bannu is located. \"Unfortunately in our country we only think of military aspects of an operation and no one bothers with the humanitarian crisis.\"The IDPs have also complained of being stopped from moving into other provinces \u2013 an illegal restriction on their right to free movement within the country.Khattack said such behaviour would deepen grievances among Pashtuns, the ethnic group that dominates the tribal north-west of the country.\"People say IDP really only stands for 'internally displaced Pashtun',\" he said. \"Pashtuns are discriminated against by the rulers who regard the peripheries of the country as dispensable.\"Some Pakistanis have been shocked that around 70,000 North Waziris opted to move into the eastern Afghan provinces of Khost and Paktika rather than Pakistan.Traditionally the flow of refugees has been the other way: millions of Afghans fled to Pakistan during the Soviet occupation of the 1980s and the civil war of the 1990s, and around 2.5 million have still not returned to Afghanistan.Bo Schack, the head of the UN refugees agency in Kabul, said the movement of IDPs into Afghanistan was \"somewhat of a surprise. This is certainly the first time ever we are seeing large scale movement over to Khost and Paktika.\"The refugees had been accommodated by locals and the Afghan authorities \"in a very positive way\", he added.After weeks of air strikes against what were described as terrorist camps, the Pakistani army said on Wednesday that it had begun shelling Miranshah, the North Waziristan capital. The military claims it has so far killed 361 militants, although such claims are impossible to verify.A large ground offensive had been delayed while the army sought to evacuate civilians from the area. Although military checkpoints were designed to trap militants inside the tribal agency, it is likely many have slipped through hidden among civilians.While IDPs who spoke to the Guardian all hoped to return home in a matter of months, the army is likely to encounter stiff resistance in the weeks to come. Nearly all of the previous operations mounted against militants have left thousands permanently cut off from their home.Most glaring are the people displaced by a massive operation in South Waziristan in 2009 which Pakistan's army has long hailed as a success. Many are yet to return to their homes.Khalid Munir, a retired colonel who served in the tribal region, said a successful operation in the last of the Taliban's safe havens would bring long-awaited security to neighbouring Southern Waziristan too. \"The foreign militants remaining in North Waziristan have nowhere to run,\" he said. \"They will have to fight, allowing the operation to move much faster than in South Waziristan.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Refugees", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan 'unprepared' for refugees fleeing operation against Taliban"},{"date": "2014-06-09T09:53:17Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Press freedom no longer exists in Pakistan. Journalism is under constant threat with both broadcast and newspaper journalists being intimidated into silence.The treatment of the popular Urdu-language channel, Geo News, is but the latest example of the way in which the authorities are seeking to close off any hint of criticism.On 24 April, I reported that Geo News was under threat of closure by the government. Now it has come to pass. As Jon Boone reported on Friday, Pakistan's media regulator, PEMRA, ordered Geo News off the air by suspending its licence for 15 days. The channel was also ordered to pay \u00a360,000 for defaming the head of the military's Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI), General Zaheer-ul-Islam.It concerned a Geo broadcast on 19 April following the attempted murder of the channel's best-known journalist, Hamid Mir. His brother appeared on screen and accused the ISI of responsibility for the shooting, in which Mir was severely wounded.Pakistan's defence ministry was quick to accuse Geo of \"false, malicious and irresponsible reporting\" that is \"a continuation of the policy of the Geo Network for maligning state institutions.\"PEMRA was asked by the ministry to find a way of closing down Geo News, which is an affiliate of CNN.The Karachi-based news channel has millions of Urdu-language viewers around the world. And Mir hosts one of its most popular programmes, Capital Talk.According to the London-based Pakistan Journalists' Association UK Geo News and its owner, the Jang group, have suffered from an \"organised campaign of harassment and intimidation\".Reporters and editors have been beaten up, its offices have been attacked and its newspaper vans have been hijacked and set alight.Last week, I reported on the beating up of the editor of the Daily Jang, Zafar Aaheer.However, these incidents must be seen in a wider context. Journalists across Pakistan face both physical and verbal threats on a daily basis. And the intimidation comes from a variety of sources.As Amnesty International has pointed out, Pakistani journalists face threats from the ISI, the Pakistani Taliban, Al-Qaida-linked groups, ethnic Baluch rebels, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi militants and the Muttahida Qaumi Movement.In January, three employees of Express News TV in Karachi were killed in a shooting attack by a Taliban group, Tehreek-i-Taliban. In claiming responsibility for the attack, the group said there would be more attacks against media outlets it regards as \"propagandist.\"Earlier in the month, Shan Dahar, a reporter for Abb Takk Television, was shot in the back while filming at a pharmacy in Larkana. He was working on a report about the unauthorised sale of pharmaceutical drugs in the area.", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "Journalist safety", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Human rights", "Censorship", "Taliban"], "title": "Intimidated journalists in Pakistan cannot exercise press freedom"},{"date": "2014-06-15T04:57:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani fighter jets launched air strikes early on Sunday against militant hideouts in the country's troubled north-west, killing dozens of insurgents, local security officials said.The strikes primarily targeted Uzbek fighters in the mountainous Dehgan area, 16 miles (25km) west of Miranshah, the main town of North Waziristan tribal district and a stronghold for Taliban and al-Qaida linked militants on the border with Afghanistan.\"The strikes were carried out based on confirmed reports about the presence of Uzbek and other militants in the area,\" an official told Agence France-Presse.The latest bombing runs come a week after after militants conducted an all-night siege of Karachi airport, killing 38 people and all but destroying a tentative peace process between the Pakistani Taliban (TTP) and the government.The Associated Press said Abu Abdul Rehman al-Maani, believed to have helped orchestrate the five-hour airport siege, was thought to be among the dead from Sunday's air strikesFollowing the assault in Karachi the US carried out two drone strikes in North Waziristan on Wednesday, the first time the unmanned attacks have been undertaken this year. The same day Pakistani air force jets pounded suspected militant hideouts, leaving at least 25 dead. Pressure has been mounting on the Pakistani government to launch a ground offensive.No precise death toll from Sunday's air strikes was immediately available as they took place overnight in a remote location. But a local security official told AFP that \"dozens of militants have been killed and eight of their hideouts have been destroyed\". The Associated Press said officials gave a death toll of around 100. There were competing reports about the identities of those killed but a second intelligence official in Miranshah told AFP that Uzbek fighters had been targeted. \"Uzbek fighters had gathered in the area, they were taking rest when jets hit them,\" he said, adding that hideouts of local Taliban and other foreign fighters were also targeted.Both the Pakistani Taliban and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan \u2013 an al-Qaida affiliate mainly based in Pakistan's tribal belt \u2013 said Uzbek fighters took part in the Karachi airport assault.Locals in Pakistan's tribal regions say some of the world's most feared Islamist fighters are quietly slipping away from the area in anticipation of an increase in military operations against them.Rumours of a ground offensive in North Waziristan, one of seven tribal regions along the border, have abounded for years. But authorities have held back from a final push, fearing the blowback in Pakistan's major cities such as Karachi.The past week has seen a significant increase in air strikes and renewed drone attacks. Washington reportedly suspended its drone programme in December to give Islamabad time to pursue a dialogue process with the TTP aimed at ending a seven-year insurgency that has claimed thousands of lives.The dialogue resulted in a month-long ceasefire between March and April but later broke down, with Pakistan resuming air strikes on suspected militant hideouts in the tribal areas.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan bombs militant targets in North Waziristan"},{"date": "2014-05-30T18:28:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The policeman in charge of the investigation into the bludgeoning to death of a pregnant woman on the streets of one of Pakistan's major cities has questioned whether her death is any more serious than any other murder he deals with, in comments likely to raise further concerns over how the country deals with so-called \"honour killings\".Three days after Farzana Parveen was murdered by a 20-strong mob of her own relatives, the official report has exonerated officers over the failure to stop the killing, which took place close to Lahore's high court. It claims Parveen had illegally remarried.\"How is this murder any more serious than all the other cases we deal with?\" said Zulfiqar Hameed, the senior officer in charge of the investigation. He said he was outraged by international media reports that suggested police stood by and did nothing.He said international condemnation had been overdone, and that the world failed to understand the cultural context in which the crime had taken place.\"These people come from a village, you can't expect them to act as if they were on Oxford Street,\" he said.The report, produced after global anger prompted Pakistan's prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to order an urgent inquiry, contradicts numerous claims from witnesses and Parveen's husband, Muhammad Iqbal, who said police at the scene refused to help him despite his desperate pleas.It says the attack happened 300 yards from the entrance to the high court, where no police were on duty. Nonetheless, one officer who happened to be passing managed to grab a pistol that had been used to shoot at Parveen; he was apparently unable to stop her relatives from picking up bricks with which they beat her to death.Hameed referred to statements by western governments, including foreign secretary William Hague, as \"cultural imperialism\" and the \"white man's burden\".There have only been a scattering of small public demonstrations against the case and domestic media largely ignored the story until the prime minister ordered the inquiry.The hastily prepared report, seen by the Guardian, appears to attempt to give some justification for the murder, claiming Parveen was already legally married to a cousin, called Mazher Iqbal. He was among the attackers who ambushed and killed her as she walked from her lawyer's office to the entrance of the high court.\"Getting married for a second time was both illegal and immoral,\" Hameed said.Iqbal claims Parveen's father supported his marriage to Parveen, only later changing his mind when he demanded more money than had originally been agreed.The report says Iqbal got to know Parveen during a long period when he was in hiding from the police following the murder of his first wife \u2013 a crime he admitted to journalists this week.The police report, which was delivered to the chief minister of Punjab province, confirms Iqbal was later excused for his crime after members of his own family agreed to forgive him under controversial sharia law-inspired provisions in Pakistan's legal system.Pakistan's usually voluble religious clerics have also remained largely silent, with the exception of Tahir Ashrafi, a high profile mullah known for his unusual liberal stance on many issues.On Friday he circulated a \"fatwa\" declaring \"the killing of girls in the name of honour or dignity is terrorism and viciousness \u2013 which has nothing to do with Islam\".\"The government and judiciary have the responsibility to punish in the harshest possible way those guilty of committing this crime,\" it said.It was a step welcomed by Tahira Abdullah, a prominent human rights activist. But she acknowledged that the response to the crime within Pakistan had been disappointing.\"We will never see any reaction from the rural areas, you can forget that,\" she said. \"But my expectations are now so lowered that any statement or demonstration is like manna from heaven.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'honour killing' inquiry exonerates police"},{"date": "2014-05-14T15:14:51Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The only two Indian journalists working in Pakistan have been ordered out of the country despite the Islamabad government's professed desire for better relations with India and the probable election this week of a new government in New Delhi led by a Hindu nationalist party.The two journalists had been working under tight restrictions in Pakistan's capital for less than a year when they were informed that their visas would not be renewed and they must leave the country by next Tuesday. Meena Menon from the Hindu and Snehesh Alex Philip of the Press Trust of India were not given any explanation of why they had to leave.The two governments allow for a limited number of journalists from the other country to work inside their borders, although no Pakistani news organisation has taken up the offer in recent years.Indian journalists working in Pakistan have complained of living under heavy surveillance and being denied permission to travel outside Islamabad.The expulsions come despite the ambition of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to improve relations between the two countries, which have gone to war four times since gaining independence from Britain in 1947. During last year's election campaign, he went out of his way to give interviews with visiting Indian journalists in which he called for greater trade and cooperation.If Sharif is to deliver on his promises, he will most likely have to deal with a government led by Bharatiya Janata, the Hindu nationalist party that appears set to sweep to power after 10 years in opposition.Exit polls published this week predict a huge win for the BJP, led by the controversial and polarising Narendra Modi, when the results are announced by election authorities on Friday. Such polls have been wrong on several previous occasions, however, and officials of the Congress party, in power since 2004, say they expect to be able to continue in government after forming alliances with smaller parties.Modi's potential foreign policy has caused anxiety and hope among regional observers. Many fear he might react badly to any incident of terrorism within India, routinely blamed on Pakistan, or a flare-up over the disputed territory of Kashmir. Others say he has the nationalist credentials to conclude a lasting peace agreement with Pakistan and point to the example of the last BJP prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee.The Indian ministry of foreign affairs said the expulsions were regrettable. \"It is ... unfortunate that the two Indian correspondents in Pakistan have been asked to leave prematurely and suddenly only a few months after their arrival,\" the ministry said in a statement.\"Not allowing independent journalists to function is a retrograde step, especially as free flow of information between India and Pakistan has long been recognised as an important confidence building measure.\"Murtaza Solangi, a former head of state-run Radio Pakistan, said he feared the decision to send the pair out of the country was a sign the country's powerful military establishment was reasserting its claim over key areas of foreign policy, in particular the relationship with India.\"It seems like foreign policy and national security is going out of the domain of Mr Sharif,\" he said. \"The government has been told these things are not your job.\"The army is thought to be resistant to making any concessions to India while the two sides continue to disagree on intractable disputes, in particular the status of the disputed former princely state of Kashmir.The Sharif government has already shelved plans to grant India a \"most favoured nation\" trade deal that would help to boost the very limited commerce between the two countries.Despite repeated public promises by the prime minister to look into the case of Declan Walsh, a New York Times journalist expelled shortly before Sharif's election, the veteran Pakistan correspondent has not been allowed to return.Mehmal Sarfraz, deputy secretary general of the South Asia Free Media Association, said: \"What kind of message are they trying to send by expelling these two in this unceremonious way, just before a new government comes to power in Delhi? The timing is very suspicious.\"", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Indian journalists ordered out of Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-06-26T17:38:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "That Pakistan's army was likely to unleash a military onslaught against Taliban safe havens near the Afghan border has been an open secret for months. But authorities have been condemned for a lack of preparedness for the inevitable exodus of refugees, now living in miserable conditions after fleeing fighting in North Waziristan.About 466,000 people have poured out of the tribal agency bordering Afghanistan following the start on 15 June of a long-awaited effort to stamp out the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups who have made the region their home. There was little infrastructure awaiting the internally displaced people (IDPs) who continue to enter Bannu, a district among one of Pakistan's least developed.Soldiers have fired live rounds to deter furious crowds of IDPs, who complain there is no shelter, not enough to eat and that they have been barred from moving to other areas of Pakistan.Ghani Rahman, waiting at an aid distribution point in Bannu, said the government had offered nothing.\"This food is not from the Pakistan government, it is from the WFP,\" said the 55-year-old, referring to the UN's World Food Programme. \"We are very thankful to the WFP because otherwise my family could not survive.\"Other groups stepping in to fill the gap with humanitarian assistance include foreign government aid agencies and wealthy Pakistani businessmen.IDPs complain of people charging extortionate rent for basic shelter and Islamabad's failure to hand over promised financial handouts.Although a temporary camp has been set up in the nearby \"frontier region\", few have been willing to move there, arguing it is insecure. Many have instead commandeered space in government schools and colleges.Dawn, one of Pakistan's leading newspapers, described the relief effort \"as one of the more miserable and haphazard IDP management programmes in memory\".The military effort, dubbed Operation Zarb-e-Azb, had long been expected following the predicted breakdown of government efforts to negotiate a peace deal with the Taliban.It is only the latest in a number of operations launched against militant havens over the years, all of which have created large number of refugees.\"North Waziristan has been on the anvil for a very, very long time and the government should have been prepared for every eventuality,\" said Afrasiab Khattak, a senator for the state in which Bannu is located. \"Unfortunately in our country we only think of military aspects of an operation and no one bothers with the humanitarian crisis.\"The IDPs have also complained of being stopped from moving into other provinces \u2013 an illegal restriction on their right to free movement within the country.Khattack said such behaviour would deepen grievances among Pashtuns, the ethnic group that dominates the tribal north-west of the country.\"People say IDP really only stands for 'internally displaced Pashtun',\" he said. \"Pashtuns are discriminated against by the rulers who regard the peripheries of the country as dispensable.\"Some Pakistanis have been shocked that around 70,000 North Waziris opted to move into the eastern Afghan provinces of Khost and Paktika rather than Pakistan.Traditionally the flow of refugees has been the other way: millions of Afghans fled to Pakistan during the Soviet occupation of the 1980s and the civil war of the 1990s, and around 2.5 million have still not returned to Afghanistan.Bo Schack, the head of the UN refugees agency in Kabul, said the movement of IDPs into Afghanistan was \"somewhat of a surprise. This is certainly the first time ever we are seeing large scale movement over to Khost and Paktika.\"The refugees had been accommodated by locals and the Afghan authorities \"in a very positive way\", he added.After weeks of air strikes against what were described as terrorist camps, the Pakistani army said on Wednesday that it had begun shelling Miranshah, the North Waziristan capital. The military claims it has so far killed 361 militants, although such claims are impossible to verify.A large ground offensive had been delayed while the army sought to evacuate civilians from the area. Although military checkpoints were designed to trap militants inside the tribal agency, it is likely many have slipped through hidden among civilians.While IDPs who spoke to the Guardian all hoped to return home in a matter of months, the army is likely to encounter stiff resistance in the weeks to come. Nearly all of the previous operations mounted against militants have left thousands permanently cut off from their home.Most glaring are the people displaced by a massive operation in South Waziristan in 2009 which Pakistan's army has long hailed as a success. Many are yet to return to their homes.Khalid Munir, a retired colonel who served in the tribal region, said a successful operation in the last of the Taliban's safe havens would bring long-awaited security to neighbouring Southern Waziristan too. \"The foreign militants remaining in North Waziristan have nowhere to run,\" he said. \"They will have to fight, allowing the operation to move much faster than in South Waziristan.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Refugees", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan 'unprepared' for refugees fleeing operation against Taliban"},{"date": "2014-06-09T09:53:17Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Press freedom no longer exists in Pakistan. Journalism is under constant threat with both broadcast and newspaper journalists being intimidated into silence.The treatment of the popular Urdu-language channel, Geo News, is but the latest example of the way in which the authorities are seeking to close off any hint of criticism.On 24 April, I reported that Geo News was under threat of closure by the government. Now it has come to pass. As Jon Boone reported on Friday, Pakistan's media regulator, PEMRA, ordered Geo News off the air by suspending its licence for 15 days. The channel was also ordered to pay \u00a360,000 for defaming the head of the military's Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI), General Zaheer-ul-Islam.It concerned a Geo broadcast on 19 April following the attempted murder of the channel's best-known journalist, Hamid Mir. His brother appeared on screen and accused the ISI of responsibility for the shooting, in which Mir was severely wounded.Pakistan's defence ministry was quick to accuse Geo of \"false, malicious and irresponsible reporting\" that is \"a continuation of the policy of the Geo Network for maligning state institutions.\"PEMRA was asked by the ministry to find a way of closing down Geo News, which is an affiliate of CNN.The Karachi-based news channel has millions of Urdu-language viewers around the world. And Mir hosts one of its most popular programmes, Capital Talk.According to the London-based Pakistan Journalists' Association UK Geo News and its owner, the Jang group, have suffered from an \"organised campaign of harassment and intimidation\".Reporters and editors have been beaten up, its offices have been attacked and its newspaper vans have been hijacked and set alight.Last week, I reported on the beating up of the editor of the Daily Jang, Zafar Aaheer.However, these incidents must be seen in a wider context. Journalists across Pakistan face both physical and verbal threats on a daily basis. And the intimidation comes from a variety of sources.As Amnesty International has pointed out, Pakistani journalists face threats from the ISI, the Pakistani Taliban, Al-Qaida-linked groups, ethnic Baluch rebels, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi militants and the Muttahida Qaumi Movement.In January, three employees of Express News TV in Karachi were killed in a shooting attack by a Taliban group, Tehreek-i-Taliban. In claiming responsibility for the attack, the group said there would be more attacks against media outlets it regards as \"propagandist.\"Earlier in the month, Shan Dahar, a reporter for Abb Takk Television, was shot in the back while filming at a pharmacy in Larkana. He was working on a report about the unauthorised sale of pharmaceutical drugs in the area.", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "Journalist safety", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Human rights", "Censorship", "Taliban"], "title": "Intimidated journalists in Pakistan cannot exercise press freedom"},{"date": "2014-05-29T10:09:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "On 27 May 2014, as Farzana Parveen lay dead on the uneven floor of the Lahore high court, it was not easy to ignore the blood-stained brick next to her. A chador she had worn that morning covered her crushed head. Police investigators said that members of her family had attacked her and her husband with batons and bricks. Farzana was three months pregnant.This murder stands out among the 900 honour killings committed over the past 12 months in Pakistan because it happened at the very place she had come to seek justice. She was apparently killed for doing something that was her right according to the law \u2013 marrying the man she loved. She was there to record her statement against a false allegation from her family that claimed that her husband had kidnapped her. If her husband hadn't escaped the attack, he too would be dead.The crowd had looked on. This is what Pakistan is increasingly becoming now \u2013 a country of 180 million or so onlookers. The papers reveal one violation of human rights after another, and women are mostly the targets.Perpetrators of honour crimes mostly try to justify their acts by appealing to religious doctrine. This is ironic. In pre-Islamic days, daughters would be buried alive. Islam put an end to that ghastly tradition. Now, those with the same pre-Islamic thinking just stone women when they are older.If one were to plot the human rights violations on a graph, 2014 would likely form a spike. The geopolitical situation is not helping \u2013 neither is the choice to negotiate with the extremist Taliban. With the kind of discourse flooding our newspapers and airwaves, it might as well be the terrorists calling all the shots.No surprise, then, that there are only muffled cries from an anaemic civil society. People are now afraid of putting their necks on the chopper of protest.With around eight million more women now in the workforce than there were 10 years ago, one cannot help but hope that it will be women themselves who will break the archaic mould they are forced into, and that it will be financial independence that will eventually free them from oppression.These numbers, however, are less impressive when compared with those who have no access to an education in the first place. Although a demographic dividend of the kind Pakistan has \u2013 over 60% are below the age of 30 \u2013 is a blessing, the kind of education emergency that exists could send the country to the brink, making it a curse. Pakistan ranks second in the world for numbers of children out of school.What can change this inevitable downward trajectory is a clear involvement of the international community with Pakistanis \u2013 a people-focused engagement \u2013 be it through developmental programmes, education via the media, or giving law-enforcement agencies the teeth they need. The key is more engagement not less.It was Simone de Beauvoir who said: \"On the day when it will be possible for woman to love not in her weakness but in her strength, not to escape herself but to find herself, not to abase herself but to assert herself \u2013 on that day love will become for her, as for man, a source of life and not of mortal danger.\"We need, above all else, to be taught how to love without death.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "Life and style", "Gender", "World news"], "title": "Farzana Parveen's killing must trigger change for women in Pakistan | Aisha Sarwari"},{"date": "2014-06-15T04:57:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani fighter jets launched air strikes early on Sunday against militant hideouts in the country's troubled north-west, killing dozens of insurgents, local security officials said.The strikes primarily targeted Uzbek fighters in the mountainous Dehgan area, 16 miles (25km) west of Miranshah, the main town of North Waziristan tribal district and a stronghold for Taliban and al-Qaida linked militants on the border with Afghanistan.\"The strikes were carried out based on confirmed reports about the presence of Uzbek and other militants in the area,\" an official told Agence France-Presse.The latest bombing runs come a week after after militants conducted an all-night siege of Karachi airport, killing 38 people and all but destroying a tentative peace process between the Pakistani Taliban (TTP) and the government.The Associated Press said Abu Abdul Rehman al-Maani, believed to have helped orchestrate the five-hour airport siege, was thought to be among the dead from Sunday's air strikesFollowing the assault in Karachi the US carried out two drone strikes in North Waziristan on Wednesday, the first time the unmanned attacks have been undertaken this year. The same day Pakistani air force jets pounded suspected militant hideouts, leaving at least 25 dead. Pressure has been mounting on the Pakistani government to launch a ground offensive.No precise death toll from Sunday's air strikes was immediately available as they took place overnight in a remote location. But a local security official told AFP that \"dozens of militants have been killed and eight of their hideouts have been destroyed\". The Associated Press said officials gave a death toll of around 100. There were competing reports about the identities of those killed but a second intelligence official in Miranshah told AFP that Uzbek fighters had been targeted. \"Uzbek fighters had gathered in the area, they were taking rest when jets hit them,\" he said, adding that hideouts of local Taliban and other foreign fighters were also targeted.Both the Pakistani Taliban and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan \u2013 an al-Qaida affiliate mainly based in Pakistan's tribal belt \u2013 said Uzbek fighters took part in the Karachi airport assault.Locals in Pakistan's tribal regions say some of the world's most feared Islamist fighters are quietly slipping away from the area in anticipation of an increase in military operations against them.Rumours of a ground offensive in North Waziristan, one of seven tribal regions along the border, have abounded for years. But authorities have held back from a final push, fearing the blowback in Pakistan's major cities such as Karachi.The past week has seen a significant increase in air strikes and renewed drone attacks. Washington reportedly suspended its drone programme in December to give Islamabad time to pursue a dialogue process with the TTP aimed at ending a seven-year insurgency that has claimed thousands of lives.The dialogue resulted in a month-long ceasefire between March and April but later broke down, with Pakistan resuming air strikes on suspected militant hideouts in the tribal areas.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan bombs militant targets in North Waziristan"},{"date": "2014-05-30T18:28:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The policeman in charge of the investigation into the bludgeoning to death of a pregnant woman on the streets of one of Pakistan's major cities has questioned whether her death is any more serious than any other murder he deals with, in comments likely to raise further concerns over how the country deals with so-called \"honour killings\".Three days after Farzana Parveen was murdered by a 20-strong mob of her own relatives, the official report has exonerated officers over the failure to stop the killing, which took place close to Lahore's high court. It claims Parveen had illegally remarried.\"How is this murder any more serious than all the other cases we deal with?\" said Zulfiqar Hameed, the senior officer in charge of the investigation. He said he was outraged by international media reports that suggested police stood by and did nothing.He said international condemnation had been overdone, and that the world failed to understand the cultural context in which the crime had taken place.\"These people come from a village, you can't expect them to act as if they were on Oxford Street,\" he said.The report, produced after global anger prompted Pakistan's prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to order an urgent inquiry, contradicts numerous claims from witnesses and Parveen's husband, Muhammad Iqbal, who said police at the scene refused to help him despite his desperate pleas.It says the attack happened 300 yards from the entrance to the high court, where no police were on duty. Nonetheless, one officer who happened to be passing managed to grab a pistol that had been used to shoot at Parveen; he was apparently unable to stop her relatives from picking up bricks with which they beat her to death.Hameed referred to statements by western governments, including foreign secretary William Hague, as \"cultural imperialism\" and the \"white man's burden\".There have only been a scattering of small public demonstrations against the case and domestic media largely ignored the story until the prime minister ordered the inquiry.The hastily prepared report, seen by the Guardian, appears to attempt to give some justification for the murder, claiming Parveen was already legally married to a cousin, called Mazher Iqbal. He was among the attackers who ambushed and killed her as she walked from her lawyer's office to the entrance of the high court.\"Getting married for a second time was both illegal and immoral,\" Hameed said.Iqbal claims Parveen's father supported his marriage to Parveen, only later changing his mind when he demanded more money than had originally been agreed.The report says Iqbal got to know Parveen during a long period when he was in hiding from the police following the murder of his first wife \u2013 a crime he admitted to journalists this week.The police report, which was delivered to the chief minister of Punjab province, confirms Iqbal was later excused for his crime after members of his own family agreed to forgive him under controversial sharia law-inspired provisions in Pakistan's legal system.Pakistan's usually voluble religious clerics have also remained largely silent, with the exception of Tahir Ashrafi, a high profile mullah known for his unusual liberal stance on many issues.On Friday he circulated a \"fatwa\" declaring \"the killing of girls in the name of honour or dignity is terrorism and viciousness \u2013 which has nothing to do with Islam\".\"The government and judiciary have the responsibility to punish in the harshest possible way those guilty of committing this crime,\" it said.It was a step welcomed by Tahira Abdullah, a prominent human rights activist. But she acknowledged that the response to the crime within Pakistan had been disappointing.\"We will never see any reaction from the rural areas, you can forget that,\" she said. \"But my expectations are now so lowered that any statement or demonstration is like manna from heaven.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'honour killing' inquiry exonerates police"},{"date": "2014-05-14T15:14:51Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The only two Indian journalists working in Pakistan have been ordered out of the country despite the Islamabad government's professed desire for better relations with India and the probable election this week of a new government in New Delhi led by a Hindu nationalist party.The two journalists had been working under tight restrictions in Pakistan's capital for less than a year when they were informed that their visas would not be renewed and they must leave the country by next Tuesday. Meena Menon from the Hindu and Snehesh Alex Philip of the Press Trust of India were not given any explanation of why they had to leave.The two governments allow for a limited number of journalists from the other country to work inside their borders, although no Pakistani news organisation has taken up the offer in recent years.Indian journalists working in Pakistan have complained of living under heavy surveillance and being denied permission to travel outside Islamabad.The expulsions come despite the ambition of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to improve relations between the two countries, which have gone to war four times since gaining independence from Britain in 1947. During last year's election campaign, he went out of his way to give interviews with visiting Indian journalists in which he called for greater trade and cooperation.If Sharif is to deliver on his promises, he will most likely have to deal with a government led by Bharatiya Janata, the Hindu nationalist party that appears set to sweep to power after 10 years in opposition.Exit polls published this week predict a huge win for the BJP, led by the controversial and polarising Narendra Modi, when the results are announced by election authorities on Friday. Such polls have been wrong on several previous occasions, however, and officials of the Congress party, in power since 2004, say they expect to be able to continue in government after forming alliances with smaller parties.Modi's potential foreign policy has caused anxiety and hope among regional observers. Many fear he might react badly to any incident of terrorism within India, routinely blamed on Pakistan, or a flare-up over the disputed territory of Kashmir. Others say he has the nationalist credentials to conclude a lasting peace agreement with Pakistan and point to the example of the last BJP prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee.The Indian ministry of foreign affairs said the expulsions were regrettable. \"It is ... unfortunate that the two Indian correspondents in Pakistan have been asked to leave prematurely and suddenly only a few months after their arrival,\" the ministry said in a statement.\"Not allowing independent journalists to function is a retrograde step, especially as free flow of information between India and Pakistan has long been recognised as an important confidence building measure.\"Murtaza Solangi, a former head of state-run Radio Pakistan, said he feared the decision to send the pair out of the country was a sign the country's powerful military establishment was reasserting its claim over key areas of foreign policy, in particular the relationship with India.\"It seems like foreign policy and national security is going out of the domain of Mr Sharif,\" he said. \"The government has been told these things are not your job.\"The army is thought to be resistant to making any concessions to India while the two sides continue to disagree on intractable disputes, in particular the status of the disputed former princely state of Kashmir.The Sharif government has already shelved plans to grant India a \"most favoured nation\" trade deal that would help to boost the very limited commerce between the two countries.Despite repeated public promises by the prime minister to look into the case of Declan Walsh, a New York Times journalist expelled shortly before Sharif's election, the veteran Pakistan correspondent has not been allowed to return.Mehmal Sarfraz, deputy secretary general of the South Asia Free Media Association, said: \"What kind of message are they trying to send by expelling these two in this unceremonious way, just before a new government comes to power in Delhi? The timing is very suspicious.\"", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Indian journalists ordered out of Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-06-26T17:38:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "That Pakistan's army was likely to unleash a military onslaught against Taliban safe havens near the Afghan border has been an open secret for months. But authorities have been condemned for a lack of preparedness for the inevitable exodus of refugees, now living in miserable conditions after fleeing fighting in North Waziristan.About 466,000 people have poured out of the tribal agency bordering Afghanistan following the start on 15 June of a long-awaited effort to stamp out the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups who have made the region their home. There was little infrastructure awaiting the internally displaced people (IDPs) who continue to enter Bannu, a district among one of Pakistan's least developed.Soldiers have fired live rounds to deter furious crowds of IDPs, who complain there is no shelter, not enough to eat and that they have been barred from moving to other areas of Pakistan.Ghani Rahman, waiting at an aid distribution point in Bannu, said the government had offered nothing.\"This food is not from the Pakistan government, it is from the WFP,\" said the 55-year-old, referring to the UN's World Food Programme. \"We are very thankful to the WFP because otherwise my family could not survive.\"Other groups stepping in to fill the gap with humanitarian assistance include foreign government aid agencies and wealthy Pakistani businessmen.IDPs complain of people charging extortionate rent for basic shelter and Islamabad's failure to hand over promised financial handouts.Although a temporary camp has been set up in the nearby \"frontier region\", few have been willing to move there, arguing it is insecure. Many have instead commandeered space in government schools and colleges.Dawn, one of Pakistan's leading newspapers, described the relief effort \"as one of the more miserable and haphazard IDP management programmes in memory\".The military effort, dubbed Operation Zarb-e-Azb, had long been expected following the predicted breakdown of government efforts to negotiate a peace deal with the Taliban.It is only the latest in a number of operations launched against militant havens over the years, all of which have created large number of refugees.\"North Waziristan has been on the anvil for a very, very long time and the government should have been prepared for every eventuality,\" said Afrasiab Khattak, a senator for the state in which Bannu is located. \"Unfortunately in our country we only think of military aspects of an operation and no one bothers with the humanitarian crisis.\"The IDPs have also complained of being stopped from moving into other provinces \u2013 an illegal restriction on their right to free movement within the country.Khattack said such behaviour would deepen grievances among Pashtuns, the ethnic group that dominates the tribal north-west of the country.\"People say IDP really only stands for 'internally displaced Pashtun',\" he said. \"Pashtuns are discriminated against by the rulers who regard the peripheries of the country as dispensable.\"Some Pakistanis have been shocked that around 70,000 North Waziris opted to move into the eastern Afghan provinces of Khost and Paktika rather than Pakistan.Traditionally the flow of refugees has been the other way: millions of Afghans fled to Pakistan during the Soviet occupation of the 1980s and the civil war of the 1990s, and around 2.5 million have still not returned to Afghanistan.Bo Schack, the head of the UN refugees agency in Kabul, said the movement of IDPs into Afghanistan was \"somewhat of a surprise. This is certainly the first time ever we are seeing large scale movement over to Khost and Paktika.\"The refugees had been accommodated by locals and the Afghan authorities \"in a very positive way\", he added.After weeks of air strikes against what were described as terrorist camps, the Pakistani army said on Wednesday that it had begun shelling Miranshah, the North Waziristan capital. The military claims it has so far killed 361 militants, although such claims are impossible to verify.A large ground offensive had been delayed while the army sought to evacuate civilians from the area. Although military checkpoints were designed to trap militants inside the tribal agency, it is likely many have slipped through hidden among civilians.While IDPs who spoke to the Guardian all hoped to return home in a matter of months, the army is likely to encounter stiff resistance in the weeks to come. Nearly all of the previous operations mounted against militants have left thousands permanently cut off from their home.Most glaring are the people displaced by a massive operation in South Waziristan in 2009 which Pakistan's army has long hailed as a success. Many are yet to return to their homes.Khalid Munir, a retired colonel who served in the tribal region, said a successful operation in the last of the Taliban's safe havens would bring long-awaited security to neighbouring Southern Waziristan too. \"The foreign militants remaining in North Waziristan have nowhere to run,\" he said. \"They will have to fight, allowing the operation to move much faster than in South Waziristan.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Refugees", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan 'unprepared' for refugees fleeing operation against Taliban"},{"date": "2014-06-09T09:53:17Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Press freedom no longer exists in Pakistan. Journalism is under constant threat with both broadcast and newspaper journalists being intimidated into silence.The treatment of the popular Urdu-language channel, Geo News, is but the latest example of the way in which the authorities are seeking to close off any hint of criticism.On 24 April, I reported that Geo News was under threat of closure by the government. Now it has come to pass. As Jon Boone reported on Friday, Pakistan's media regulator, PEMRA, ordered Geo News off the air by suspending its licence for 15 days. The channel was also ordered to pay \u00a360,000 for defaming the head of the military's Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI), General Zaheer-ul-Islam.It concerned a Geo broadcast on 19 April following the attempted murder of the channel's best-known journalist, Hamid Mir. His brother appeared on screen and accused the ISI of responsibility for the shooting, in which Mir was severely wounded.Pakistan's defence ministry was quick to accuse Geo of \"false, malicious and irresponsible reporting\" that is \"a continuation of the policy of the Geo Network for maligning state institutions.\"PEMRA was asked by the ministry to find a way of closing down Geo News, which is an affiliate of CNN.The Karachi-based news channel has millions of Urdu-language viewers around the world. And Mir hosts one of its most popular programmes, Capital Talk.According to the London-based Pakistan Journalists' Association UK Geo News and its owner, the Jang group, have suffered from an \"organised campaign of harassment and intimidation\".Reporters and editors have been beaten up, its offices have been attacked and its newspaper vans have been hijacked and set alight.Last week, I reported on the beating up of the editor of the Daily Jang, Zafar Aaheer.However, these incidents must be seen in a wider context. Journalists across Pakistan face both physical and verbal threats on a daily basis. And the intimidation comes from a variety of sources.As Amnesty International has pointed out, Pakistani journalists face threats from the ISI, the Pakistani Taliban, Al-Qaida-linked groups, ethnic Baluch rebels, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi militants and the Muttahida Qaumi Movement.In January, three employees of Express News TV in Karachi were killed in a shooting attack by a Taliban group, Tehreek-i-Taliban. In claiming responsibility for the attack, the group said there would be more attacks against media outlets it regards as \"propagandist.\"Earlier in the month, Shan Dahar, a reporter for Abb Takk Television, was shot in the back while filming at a pharmacy in Larkana. He was working on a report about the unauthorised sale of pharmaceutical drugs in the area.", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "Journalist safety", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Human rights", "Censorship", "Taliban"], "title": "Intimidated journalists in Pakistan cannot exercise press freedom"},{"date": "2014-05-29T10:09:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "On 27 May 2014, as Farzana Parveen lay dead on the uneven floor of the Lahore high court, it was not easy to ignore the blood-stained brick next to her. A chador she had worn that morning covered her crushed head. Police investigators said that members of her family had attacked her and her husband with batons and bricks. Farzana was three months pregnant.This murder stands out among the 900 honour killings committed over the past 12 months in Pakistan because it happened at the very place she had come to seek justice. She was apparently killed for doing something that was her right according to the law \u2013 marrying the man she loved. She was there to record her statement against a false allegation from her family that claimed that her husband had kidnapped her. If her husband hadn't escaped the attack, he too would be dead.The crowd had looked on. This is what Pakistan is increasingly becoming now \u2013 a country of 180 million or so onlookers. The papers reveal one violation of human rights after another, and women are mostly the targets.Perpetrators of honour crimes mostly try to justify their acts by appealing to religious doctrine. This is ironic. In pre-Islamic days, daughters would be buried alive. Islam put an end to that ghastly tradition. Now, those with the same pre-Islamic thinking just stone women when they are older.If one were to plot the human rights violations on a graph, 2014 would likely form a spike. The geopolitical situation is not helping \u2013 neither is the choice to negotiate with the extremist Taliban. With the kind of discourse flooding our newspapers and airwaves, it might as well be the terrorists calling all the shots.No surprise, then, that there are only muffled cries from an anaemic civil society. People are now afraid of putting their necks on the chopper of protest.With around eight million more women now in the workforce than there were 10 years ago, one cannot help but hope that it will be women themselves who will break the archaic mould they are forced into, and that it will be financial independence that will eventually free them from oppression.These numbers, however, are less impressive when compared with those who have no access to an education in the first place. Although a demographic dividend of the kind Pakistan has \u2013 over 60% are below the age of 30 \u2013 is a blessing, the kind of education emergency that exists could send the country to the brink, making it a curse. Pakistan ranks second in the world for numbers of children out of school.What can change this inevitable downward trajectory is a clear involvement of the international community with Pakistanis \u2013 a people-focused engagement \u2013 be it through developmental programmes, education via the media, or giving law-enforcement agencies the teeth they need. The key is more engagement not less.It was Simone de Beauvoir who said: \"On the day when it will be possible for woman to love not in her weakness but in her strength, not to escape herself but to find herself, not to abase herself but to assert herself \u2013 on that day love will become for her, as for man, a source of life and not of mortal danger.\"We need, above all else, to be taught how to love without death.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "Life and style", "Gender", "World news"], "title": "Farzana Parveen's killing must trigger change for women in Pakistan | Aisha Sarwari"},{"date": "2014-04-23T00:32:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's army demanded the closure of the country's most popular television channel on Tuesday following allegations that the military's main intelligence agency had ordered an assassination attempt on its star journalist.In a three-page petition to Pakistan's broadcast regulator the ministry of defence accused Geo News of mounting a \"vicious campaign\" to libel the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI) and called for its operating license to be revoked. \"The telecast in question was aimed at undermining the integrity and tarnishing the image of state institution and its officers and falsely linking it with terrorist outfits,\" the notice said.The confrontation between the country's most powerful institution and its biggest media group was triggered on Saturday when Hamid Mir, a household-name presenter, was severely injured when gunmen opened fire on his vehicle as he was travelling along one of Karachi's busiest thoroughfares.Even as he underwent emergency surgery Geo News broadcast non-stop claims, relayed by Mir's brother, that the ISI and its director general Zaheer-ul-Islam should be held responsible for the attempt to kill him.Mir said he had feared he would be targeted because of his criticism of the army over its interference in politics and the brutal counterinsurgency being waged in the troubled province of Balochistan.Outspoken journalists run great risks in Pakistan, particularly from militants who have targeted media workers who dare to criticise the Taliban or highlight deadly sectarian attacks on religious minorities.Raza Rumi, a prominent liberal analyst, fled the country after he survived a gun attack on his car in Lahore that killed his driver in late March.Recently Mir had demanded the high treason trial of former military ruler Pervez Musharraf be expanded to include other people involved in ordering emergency rule in 2007. The trial, which has dragged on since December, has become an area of tense disagreement between the government which initiated it and the military which wants Musharraf to be allowed to leave the country.In a public show of support on Monday Nawaz Sharif, the prime minister, visited Mir in hospital and promised a thorough investigation into the assassination attempt.The ISI has a reputation for being an all-powerful \"state within a state\" and has in the past been accused of various misdeeds, including the killing of journalist Saleem Shahzad in 2011 who had been investigating the penetration of al-Qaida into the army.But never before have such serious claims of criminality been made by a such a prominent figure as Mir, a widely admired journalist whose night time show attracts front rank politicians as guests and is watched by millions. Although Geo later insisted it respected the military and had reported the army's denials alongside Mir's claims, the affair has caused uproar within army ranks.Any move to put out of business the most prominent of all the private channels will be met with alarm by supporters of greater democracy in the country.The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) said Pakistan's broadcasting regulator should not act on the \"spurious complaint\" and called on the country's security services \"to recognise the critical role of the media and exercise tolerance and maturity\".\"The ISI is free to rebut allegations in the media but should not try to censor coverage,\" said Bob Dietz, the CPJ's Asia programme coordinator.The immense power of Pakistan's army, which has directly ruled the country for half of its history, has been increasingly challenged since 2007 by the return of civilian governments and the dramatic rise of a rambunctious television news media.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)"], "title": "Pakistan army demands TV channel closure over assassination dispute"},{"date": "2014-06-15T04:57:20Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani fighter jets launched air strikes early on Sunday against militant hideouts in the country's troubled north-west, killing dozens of insurgents, local security officials said.The strikes primarily targeted Uzbek fighters in the mountainous Dehgan area, 16 miles (25km) west of Miranshah, the main town of North Waziristan tribal district and a stronghold for Taliban and al-Qaida linked militants on the border with Afghanistan.\"The strikes were carried out based on confirmed reports about the presence of Uzbek and other militants in the area,\" an official told Agence France-Presse.The latest bombing runs come a week after after militants conducted an all-night siege of Karachi airport, killing 38 people and all but destroying a tentative peace process between the Pakistani Taliban (TTP) and the government.The Associated Press said Abu Abdul Rehman al-Maani, believed to have helped orchestrate the five-hour airport siege, was thought to be among the dead from Sunday's air strikesFollowing the assault in Karachi the US carried out two drone strikes in North Waziristan on Wednesday, the first time the unmanned attacks have been undertaken this year. The same day Pakistani air force jets pounded suspected militant hideouts, leaving at least 25 dead. Pressure has been mounting on the Pakistani government to launch a ground offensive.No precise death toll from Sunday's air strikes was immediately available as they took place overnight in a remote location. But a local security official told AFP that \"dozens of militants have been killed and eight of their hideouts have been destroyed\". The Associated Press said officials gave a death toll of around 100. There were competing reports about the identities of those killed but a second intelligence official in Miranshah told AFP that Uzbek fighters had been targeted. \"Uzbek fighters had gathered in the area, they were taking rest when jets hit them,\" he said, adding that hideouts of local Taliban and other foreign fighters were also targeted.Both the Pakistani Taliban and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan \u2013 an al-Qaida affiliate mainly based in Pakistan's tribal belt \u2013 said Uzbek fighters took part in the Karachi airport assault.Locals in Pakistan's tribal regions say some of the world's most feared Islamist fighters are quietly slipping away from the area in anticipation of an increase in military operations against them.Rumours of a ground offensive in North Waziristan, one of seven tribal regions along the border, have abounded for years. But authorities have held back from a final push, fearing the blowback in Pakistan's major cities such as Karachi.The past week has seen a significant increase in air strikes and renewed drone attacks. Washington reportedly suspended its drone programme in December to give Islamabad time to pursue a dialogue process with the TTP aimed at ending a seven-year insurgency that has claimed thousands of lives.The dialogue resulted in a month-long ceasefire between March and April but later broke down, with Pakistan resuming air strikes on suspected militant hideouts in the tribal areas.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan bombs militant targets in North Waziristan"},{"date": "2014-05-30T18:28:55Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The policeman in charge of the investigation into the bludgeoning to death of a pregnant woman on the streets of one of Pakistan's major cities has questioned whether her death is any more serious than any other murder he deals with, in comments likely to raise further concerns over how the country deals with so-called \"honour killings\".Three days after Farzana Parveen was murdered by a 20-strong mob of her own relatives, the official report has exonerated officers over the failure to stop the killing, which took place close to Lahore's high court. It claims Parveen had illegally remarried.\"How is this murder any more serious than all the other cases we deal with?\" said Zulfiqar Hameed, the senior officer in charge of the investigation. He said he was outraged by international media reports that suggested police stood by and did nothing.He said international condemnation had been overdone, and that the world failed to understand the cultural context in which the crime had taken place.\"These people come from a village, you can't expect them to act as if they were on Oxford Street,\" he said.The report, produced after global anger prompted Pakistan's prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to order an urgent inquiry, contradicts numerous claims from witnesses and Parveen's husband, Muhammad Iqbal, who said police at the scene refused to help him despite his desperate pleas.It says the attack happened 300 yards from the entrance to the high court, where no police were on duty. Nonetheless, one officer who happened to be passing managed to grab a pistol that had been used to shoot at Parveen; he was apparently unable to stop her relatives from picking up bricks with which they beat her to death.Hameed referred to statements by western governments, including foreign secretary William Hague, as \"cultural imperialism\" and the \"white man's burden\".There have only been a scattering of small public demonstrations against the case and domestic media largely ignored the story until the prime minister ordered the inquiry.The hastily prepared report, seen by the Guardian, appears to attempt to give some justification for the murder, claiming Parveen was already legally married to a cousin, called Mazher Iqbal. He was among the attackers who ambushed and killed her as she walked from her lawyer's office to the entrance of the high court.\"Getting married for a second time was both illegal and immoral,\" Hameed said.Iqbal claims Parveen's father supported his marriage to Parveen, only later changing his mind when he demanded more money than had originally been agreed.The report says Iqbal got to know Parveen during a long period when he was in hiding from the police following the murder of his first wife \u2013 a crime he admitted to journalists this week.The police report, which was delivered to the chief minister of Punjab province, confirms Iqbal was later excused for his crime after members of his own family agreed to forgive him under controversial sharia law-inspired provisions in Pakistan's legal system.Pakistan's usually voluble religious clerics have also remained largely silent, with the exception of Tahir Ashrafi, a high profile mullah known for his unusual liberal stance on many issues.On Friday he circulated a \"fatwa\" declaring \"the killing of girls in the name of honour or dignity is terrorism and viciousness \u2013 which has nothing to do with Islam\".\"The government and judiciary have the responsibility to punish in the harshest possible way those guilty of committing this crime,\" it said.It was a step welcomed by Tahira Abdullah, a prominent human rights activist. But she acknowledged that the response to the crime within Pakistan had been disappointing.\"We will never see any reaction from the rural areas, you can forget that,\" she said. \"But my expectations are now so lowered that any statement or demonstration is like manna from heaven.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan 'honour killing' inquiry exonerates police"},{"date": "2014-05-14T15:14:51Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The only two Indian journalists working in Pakistan have been ordered out of the country despite the Islamabad government's professed desire for better relations with India and the probable election this week of a new government in New Delhi led by a Hindu nationalist party.The two journalists had been working under tight restrictions in Pakistan's capital for less than a year when they were informed that their visas would not be renewed and they must leave the country by next Tuesday. Meena Menon from the Hindu and Snehesh Alex Philip of the Press Trust of India were not given any explanation of why they had to leave.The two governments allow for a limited number of journalists from the other country to work inside their borders, although no Pakistani news organisation has taken up the offer in recent years.Indian journalists working in Pakistan have complained of living under heavy surveillance and being denied permission to travel outside Islamabad.The expulsions come despite the ambition of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, to improve relations between the two countries, which have gone to war four times since gaining independence from Britain in 1947. During last year's election campaign, he went out of his way to give interviews with visiting Indian journalists in which he called for greater trade and cooperation.If Sharif is to deliver on his promises, he will most likely have to deal with a government led by Bharatiya Janata, the Hindu nationalist party that appears set to sweep to power after 10 years in opposition.Exit polls published this week predict a huge win for the BJP, led by the controversial and polarising Narendra Modi, when the results are announced by election authorities on Friday. Such polls have been wrong on several previous occasions, however, and officials of the Congress party, in power since 2004, say they expect to be able to continue in government after forming alliances with smaller parties.Modi's potential foreign policy has caused anxiety and hope among regional observers. Many fear he might react badly to any incident of terrorism within India, routinely blamed on Pakistan, or a flare-up over the disputed territory of Kashmir. Others say he has the nationalist credentials to conclude a lasting peace agreement with Pakistan and point to the example of the last BJP prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee.The Indian ministry of foreign affairs said the expulsions were regrettable. \"It is ... unfortunate that the two Indian correspondents in Pakistan have been asked to leave prematurely and suddenly only a few months after their arrival,\" the ministry said in a statement.\"Not allowing independent journalists to function is a retrograde step, especially as free flow of information between India and Pakistan has long been recognised as an important confidence building measure.\"Murtaza Solangi, a former head of state-run Radio Pakistan, said he feared the decision to send the pair out of the country was a sign the country's powerful military establishment was reasserting its claim over key areas of foreign policy, in particular the relationship with India.\"It seems like foreign policy and national security is going out of the domain of Mr Sharif,\" he said. \"The government has been told these things are not your job.\"The army is thought to be resistant to making any concessions to India while the two sides continue to disagree on intractable disputes, in particular the status of the disputed former princely state of Kashmir.The Sharif government has already shelved plans to grant India a \"most favoured nation\" trade deal that would help to boost the very limited commerce between the two countries.Despite repeated public promises by the prime minister to look into the case of Declan Walsh, a New York Times journalist expelled shortly before Sharif's election, the veteran Pakistan correspondent has not been allowed to return.Mehmal Sarfraz, deputy secretary general of the South Asia Free Media Association, said: \"What kind of message are they trying to send by expelling these two in this unceremonious way, just before a new government comes to power in Delhi? The timing is very suspicious.\"", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "World news", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Indian journalists ordered out of Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-06-26T17:38:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "That Pakistan's army was likely to unleash a military onslaught against Taliban safe havens near the Afghan border has been an open secret for months. But authorities have been condemned for a lack of preparedness for the inevitable exodus of refugees, now living in miserable conditions after fleeing fighting in North Waziristan.About 466,000 people have poured out of the tribal agency bordering Afghanistan following the start on 15 June of a long-awaited effort to stamp out the Pakistani Taliban and other militant groups who have made the region their home. There was little infrastructure awaiting the internally displaced people (IDPs) who continue to enter Bannu, a district among one of Pakistan's least developed.Soldiers have fired live rounds to deter furious crowds of IDPs, who complain there is no shelter, not enough to eat and that they have been barred from moving to other areas of Pakistan.Ghani Rahman, waiting at an aid distribution point in Bannu, said the government had offered nothing.\"This food is not from the Pakistan government, it is from the WFP,\" said the 55-year-old, referring to the UN's World Food Programme. \"We are very thankful to the WFP because otherwise my family could not survive.\"Other groups stepping in to fill the gap with humanitarian assistance include foreign government aid agencies and wealthy Pakistani businessmen.IDPs complain of people charging extortionate rent for basic shelter and Islamabad's failure to hand over promised financial handouts.Although a temporary camp has been set up in the nearby \"frontier region\", few have been willing to move there, arguing it is insecure. Many have instead commandeered space in government schools and colleges.Dawn, one of Pakistan's leading newspapers, described the relief effort \"as one of the more miserable and haphazard IDP management programmes in memory\".The military effort, dubbed Operation Zarb-e-Azb, had long been expected following the predicted breakdown of government efforts to negotiate a peace deal with the Taliban.It is only the latest in a number of operations launched against militant havens over the years, all of which have created large number of refugees.\"North Waziristan has been on the anvil for a very, very long time and the government should have been prepared for every eventuality,\" said Afrasiab Khattak, a senator for the state in which Bannu is located. \"Unfortunately in our country we only think of military aspects of an operation and no one bothers with the humanitarian crisis.\"The IDPs have also complained of being stopped from moving into other provinces \u2013 an illegal restriction on their right to free movement within the country.Khattack said such behaviour would deepen grievances among Pashtuns, the ethnic group that dominates the tribal north-west of the country.\"People say IDP really only stands for 'internally displaced Pashtun',\" he said. \"Pashtuns are discriminated against by the rulers who regard the peripheries of the country as dispensable.\"Some Pakistanis have been shocked that around 70,000 North Waziris opted to move into the eastern Afghan provinces of Khost and Paktika rather than Pakistan.Traditionally the flow of refugees has been the other way: millions of Afghans fled to Pakistan during the Soviet occupation of the 1980s and the civil war of the 1990s, and around 2.5 million have still not returned to Afghanistan.Bo Schack, the head of the UN refugees agency in Kabul, said the movement of IDPs into Afghanistan was \"somewhat of a surprise. This is certainly the first time ever we are seeing large scale movement over to Khost and Paktika.\"The refugees had been accommodated by locals and the Afghan authorities \"in a very positive way\", he added.After weeks of air strikes against what were described as terrorist camps, the Pakistani army said on Wednesday that it had begun shelling Miranshah, the North Waziristan capital. The military claims it has so far killed 361 militants, although such claims are impossible to verify.A large ground offensive had been delayed while the army sought to evacuate civilians from the area. Although military checkpoints were designed to trap militants inside the tribal agency, it is likely many have slipped through hidden among civilians.While IDPs who spoke to the Guardian all hoped to return home in a matter of months, the army is likely to encounter stiff resistance in the weeks to come. Nearly all of the previous operations mounted against militants have left thousands permanently cut off from their home.Most glaring are the people displaced by a massive operation in South Waziristan in 2009 which Pakistan's army has long hailed as a success. Many are yet to return to their homes.Khalid Munir, a retired colonel who served in the tribal region, said a successful operation in the last of the Taliban's safe havens would bring long-awaited security to neighbouring Southern Waziristan too. \"The foreign militants remaining in North Waziristan have nowhere to run,\" he said. \"They will have to fight, allowing the operation to move much faster than in South Waziristan.\"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Refugees", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "Pakistan 'unprepared' for refugees fleeing operation against Taliban"},{"date": "2014-06-09T09:53:17Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Press freedom no longer exists in Pakistan. Journalism is under constant threat with both broadcast and newspaper journalists being intimidated into silence.The treatment of the popular Urdu-language channel, Geo News, is but the latest example of the way in which the authorities are seeking to close off any hint of criticism.On 24 April, I reported that Geo News was under threat of closure by the government. Now it has come to pass. As Jon Boone reported on Friday, Pakistan's media regulator, PEMRA, ordered Geo News off the air by suspending its licence for 15 days. The channel was also ordered to pay \u00a360,000 for defaming the head of the military's Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI), General Zaheer-ul-Islam.It concerned a Geo broadcast on 19 April following the attempted murder of the channel's best-known journalist, Hamid Mir. His brother appeared on screen and accused the ISI of responsibility for the shooting, in which Mir was severely wounded.Pakistan's defence ministry was quick to accuse Geo of \"false, malicious and irresponsible reporting\" that is \"a continuation of the policy of the Geo Network for maligning state institutions.\"PEMRA was asked by the ministry to find a way of closing down Geo News, which is an affiliate of CNN.The Karachi-based news channel has millions of Urdu-language viewers around the world. And Mir hosts one of its most popular programmes, Capital Talk.According to the London-based Pakistan Journalists' Association UK Geo News and its owner, the Jang group, have suffered from an \"organised campaign of harassment and intimidation\".Reporters and editors have been beaten up, its offices have been attacked and its newspaper vans have been hijacked and set alight.Last week, I reported on the beating up of the editor of the Daily Jang, Zafar Aaheer.However, these incidents must be seen in a wider context. Journalists across Pakistan face both physical and verbal threats on a daily basis. And the intimidation comes from a variety of sources.As Amnesty International has pointed out, Pakistani journalists face threats from the ISI, the Pakistani Taliban, Al-Qaida-linked groups, ethnic Baluch rebels, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi militants and the Muttahida Qaumi Movement.In January, three employees of Express News TV in Karachi were killed in a shooting attack by a Taliban group, Tehreek-i-Taliban. In claiming responsibility for the attack, the group said there would be more attacks against media outlets it regards as \"propagandist.\"Earlier in the month, Shan Dahar, a reporter for Abb Takk Television, was shot in the back while filming at a pharmacy in Larkana. He was working on a report about the unauthorised sale of pharmaceutical drugs in the area.", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan", "Journalist safety", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Human rights", "Censorship", "Taliban"], "title": "Intimidated journalists in Pakistan cannot exercise press freedom"},{"date": "2014-05-29T10:09:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "On 27 May 2014, as Farzana Parveen lay dead on the uneven floor of the Lahore high court, it was not easy to ignore the blood-stained brick next to her. A chador she had worn that morning covered her crushed head. Police investigators said that members of her family had attacked her and her husband with batons and bricks. Farzana was three months pregnant.This murder stands out among the 900 honour killings committed over the past 12 months in Pakistan because it happened at the very place she had come to seek justice. She was apparently killed for doing something that was her right according to the law \u2013 marrying the man she loved. She was there to record her statement against a false allegation from her family that claimed that her husband had kidnapped her. If her husband hadn't escaped the attack, he too would be dead.The crowd had looked on. This is what Pakistan is increasingly becoming now \u2013 a country of 180 million or so onlookers. The papers reveal one violation of human rights after another, and women are mostly the targets.Perpetrators of honour crimes mostly try to justify their acts by appealing to religious doctrine. This is ironic. In pre-Islamic days, daughters would be buried alive. Islam put an end to that ghastly tradition. Now, those with the same pre-Islamic thinking just stone women when they are older.If one were to plot the human rights violations on a graph, 2014 would likely form a spike. The geopolitical situation is not helping \u2013 neither is the choice to negotiate with the extremist Taliban. With the kind of discourse flooding our newspapers and airwaves, it might as well be the terrorists calling all the shots.No surprise, then, that there are only muffled cries from an anaemic civil society. People are now afraid of putting their necks on the chopper of protest.With around eight million more women now in the workforce than there were 10 years ago, one cannot help but hope that it will be women themselves who will break the archaic mould they are forced into, and that it will be financial independence that will eventually free them from oppression.These numbers, however, are less impressive when compared with those who have no access to an education in the first place. Although a demographic dividend of the kind Pakistan has \u2013 over 60% are below the age of 30 \u2013 is a blessing, the kind of education emergency that exists could send the country to the brink, making it a curse. Pakistan ranks second in the world for numbers of children out of school.What can change this inevitable downward trajectory is a clear involvement of the international community with Pakistanis \u2013 a people-focused engagement \u2013 be it through developmental programmes, education via the media, or giving law-enforcement agencies the teeth they need. The key is more engagement not less.It was Simone de Beauvoir who said: \"On the day when it will be possible for woman to love not in her weakness but in her strength, not to escape herself but to find herself, not to abase herself but to assert herself \u2013 on that day love will become for her, as for man, a source of life and not of mortal danger.\"We need, above all else, to be taught how to love without death.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Women", "Life and style", "Gender", "World news"], "title": "Farzana Parveen's killing must trigger change for women in Pakistan | Aisha Sarwari"},{"date": "2014-04-23T00:32:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan's army demanded the closure of the country's most popular television channel on Tuesday following allegations that the military's main intelligence agency had ordered an assassination attempt on its star journalist.In a three-page petition to Pakistan's broadcast regulator the ministry of defence accused Geo News of mounting a \"vicious campaign\" to libel the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI) and called for its operating license to be revoked. \"The telecast in question was aimed at undermining the integrity and tarnishing the image of state institution and its officers and falsely linking it with terrorist outfits,\" the notice said.The confrontation between the country's most powerful institution and its biggest media group was triggered on Saturday when Hamid Mir, a household-name presenter, was severely injured when gunmen opened fire on his vehicle as he was travelling along one of Karachi's busiest thoroughfares.Even as he underwent emergency surgery Geo News broadcast non-stop claims, relayed by Mir's brother, that the ISI and its director general Zaheer-ul-Islam should be held responsible for the attempt to kill him.Mir said he had feared he would be targeted because of his criticism of the army over its interference in politics and the brutal counterinsurgency being waged in the troubled province of Balochistan.Outspoken journalists run great risks in Pakistan, particularly from militants who have targeted media workers who dare to criticise the Taliban or highlight deadly sectarian attacks on religious minorities.Raza Rumi, a prominent liberal analyst, fled the country after he survived a gun attack on his car in Lahore that killed his driver in late March.Recently Mir had demanded the high treason trial of former military ruler Pervez Musharraf be expanded to include other people involved in ordering emergency rule in 2007. The trial, which has dragged on since December, has become an area of tense disagreement between the government which initiated it and the military which wants Musharraf to be allowed to leave the country.In a public show of support on Monday Nawaz Sharif, the prime minister, visited Mir in hospital and promised a thorough investigation into the assassination attempt.The ISI has a reputation for being an all-powerful \"state within a state\" and has in the past been accused of various misdeeds, including the killing of journalist Saleem Shahzad in 2011 who had been investigating the penetration of al-Qaida into the army.But never before have such serious claims of criminality been made by a such a prominent figure as Mir, a widely admired journalist whose night time show attracts front rank politicians as guests and is watched by millions. Although Geo later insisted it respected the military and had reported the army's denials alongside Mir's claims, the affair has caused uproar within army ranks.Any move to put out of business the most prominent of all the private channels will be met with alarm by supporters of greater democracy in the country.The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) said Pakistan's broadcasting regulator should not act on the \"spurious complaint\" and called on the country's security services \"to recognise the critical role of the media and exercise tolerance and maturity\".\"The ISI is free to rebut allegations in the media but should not try to censor coverage,\" said Bob Dietz, the CPJ's Asia programme coordinator.The immense power of Pakistan's army, which has directly ruled the country for half of its history, has been increasingly challenged since 2007 by the return of civilian governments and the dramatic rise of a rambunctious television news media.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)"], "title": "Pakistan army demands TV channel closure over assassination dispute"},{"date": "2014-06-15T19:23:38Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A long-awaited military campaign to destroy militant safe havens in a Taliban-dominated part of Pakistan's borderlands began , years after the US first demanded action.The army said it had launched a \"comprehensive operation against foreign and local terrorists who are hiding in sanctuaries in North Waziristan\", the troubled tribal region that has served as a staging area for attacks across Pakistan and Afghanistan.Military sources said as many as 30,000 troops could be involved in the operation to secure the border region, which the army believes must be completed before the end of Nato combat operations this year in Afghanistan.An official statement said \"Operation Zarb-e-Azb\" had been launched \"on the directions of the government\", but the decision follows months of public controversy over the issue, with leading politicians arguing any attempt to seize control of the area would provoke a violent backlash by the Pakistani Taliban in the country's cities.Pakistan's prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, had instead tried to negotiate a peace deal with militants, something most experts said had no chance of success given the record of militants breaking ceasefires.Sharif's obstinacy in the face of army demands for North Waziristan to be dealt with before summer has exacerbated tensions between Pakistan's civilian and military leaderships, who have clashed over the treason trial of former military ruler Pervez Musharraf.The military statement said the country could not afford to wait any longer. \"Using North Waziristan as a base, these terrorists had waged a war against the state of Pakistan and had been disrupting our national life in all its dimensions, stunting our economic growth and causing enormous loss of life and property,\" it said.Pakistan's military had already ramped up pressure on militant groups in North Waziristan in recent weeks, launching air strikes and limited ground operations which it described as limited acts of retaliation against Taliban attacks.The latest came early on Sunday when the army claimed fighter jets killed 80 terrorists, most of whom it said were Uzbeks involved in last week's lethal attack on Karachi's airport. Military sources said Abdul Rehman, a senior commander from the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan who is said to have masterminded the airport attack, was among the dead.North Waziristan is part of a swath of forbidding, mountainous border territory that fell under Taliban control after militants fled there from Afghanistan following the US-led invasion of 2001.It soon became a global hub for a plethora of terrorist groups, including al-Qaida and the Pakistani Taliban.The presence of a large safe haven next to Afghanistan enraged bWashington and Kabul who complained the region was being used to hatch plots, train fighters and prepare suicide bombers who could cross the border to kill Afghan and Nato troops.But Pakistan refused to act, even after the attempt by a Pakistani American terrorist to bomb New York's Times Square was traced back to the Pakistani Taliban in North Waziristan.In 2011 the North Waziristan-based Haqqani Network, an Afghan militant group, launched a rocket attack on the US embassy in Kabul.In response the White House expanded the use of missile strikes by unmanned drones to kill suspected militants, although the increase in strikes caused outrage in Pakistan.Pakistan's refusal to act in North Waziristan reinforced suspicions that it continues to support and protect some militant groups, including the Afghan Taliban, in order to gain influence in Afghanistan, a country historically feared by Islamabad because of its refusal to drop claims to Pakistani territory and long-standing ties with arch enemy India.The army argued it was taking action, methodically clawing back control of parts of the tribal north-west that had slipped into militant hands by launching major operations in the Swat Valley and South Waziristan.Some observers remain sceptical despite Sunday's announcement. They argue the Haqqani Network and other militant groups regarded as useful allies are likely to be left untouched by the operation or will simply move into unsecured parts of western Afghanistan.On Sunday the army insisted it would \"eliminate these terrorists regardless of hue and colour\".Despite the dangers posed by North Waziristan, many analysts, including one senior western security official in Islamabad, warn an operation may only succeed in forcing dangerous militants into other parts of the country, including the already turbulent city of Karachi where the Pakistani Taliban has made dramatic inroads in recent years.They say the police are simply not prepared to fight an urban insurgency.Speaking on local television defence minister Khawaja Asif said \"terrorists may carry out attacks, we have to be watchful\". But he vowed that the operation would be carried through \"to its logical conclusion\".\"Any group that uses Pakistan's soil for terrorism will be eliminated, the operation will continue till the complete destruction of terrorism,\" he said.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Al-Qaida"], "title": "Pakistan begins long-awaited offensive to root out militants from border region"},{"date": "2014-08-19T22:25:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters swarmed towards Pakistan's parliament late on Tuesday night after using bolt cutters and cranes to swiftly remove barricades designed to keep them away from the most sensitive areas of the country's capital city.An estimated 50,000 protesters, led by an opposition politician and a Canada-based cleric, had been holding demonstrations in Islamabad for five days to demand the resignation of the government led by prime minister Nawaz Sharif.But until Tuesday they had held back on threats to move on Islamabad's \"red zone\" which houses parliament, the prime minister's office and most foreign embassies.Such a move risked sparking a violent confrontation with police and the army, which in an unusual move had in recent weeks been called in to buttress security in the capital, with about 700 personnel posted inside the red zone.The challenge from the protesters puts Sharif in a difficult position. Major bloodshed defending the red zone could create the conditions for intervention by the country's powerful army, which has a long record of sacking civilian governments throughout Pakistan's turbulent history.At the risk of looking weak, Sharif opted to allow the demonstrators to move into the heart of the capital.No attempt was made to block the progress of marchers by police, many of whom were armed with nothing more than sticks.Protesters were even able to drive cranes into the capital to remove stacks of sea containers placed on key roads leading to the red zone.In a tweet, his daughter Maryam Sharif said the prime minister had ordered police \"not to use any kind of force against the protesters\" in order to protect the many women and children among them.Imran Khan, one of the leaders of the demonstrations, deliberately put women and children at the head of the marchers, while he was conveyed with senior party members on the roof of a specially converted sea container.Despite repeatedly claiming in a speech earlier in the evening that he would lead a peaceful demonstration, many of his supporters carried sticks and were prepared for tear gas with goggles.Khan, the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, is demanding the resignation of Sharif's government which he claims won a landslide victory in last year's general election on the basis of massive electoral fraud, although his allegations have not been supported by independent observers.He has promised to turn the area in front of Pakistan's national assembly building into a \"Tahrir Square\", referring to the 2011 protests in Cairo that ousted president Hosni Mubarak.On Monday he also announced the 34 members of his party who won seats will quit parliament.He has joined forces with Tahir-ul-Qadri, a Barelvi cleric with a considerable support base, who also wants to see the resignation of the government.Unlike Khan, Qadri does not want fresh elections but the establishment of a \"national government\" of technocrats.The protests in the capital have already gone on for five days. The prospect of the standoff continuing outside the nation's parliament could see the army playing an arbitration role.Late on Tuesday army spokesman General Asim Bajwa tweeted an appeal for \"patience, wisdom [and] sagacity from all stakeholders through larger national and public interest\".Over the last year Sharif has been weakened by damaging disputes with the powerful military establishment which removed him from power in the 1999 coup led by Pervez Musharraf.Despite an outright parliamentary majority, the ongoing political crisis is likely to weaken him further and could make him reliant on the army for his political survival.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "World news"], "title": "Protesters march on Pakistan parliament 'red zone'"},{"date": "2014-08-19T22:25:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters swarmed towards Pakistan's parliament late on Tuesday night after using bolt cutters and cranes to swiftly remove barricades designed to keep them away from the most sensitive areas of the country's capital city.An estimated 50,000 protesters, led by an opposition politician and a Canada-based cleric, had been holding demonstrations in Islamabad for five days to demand the resignation of the government led by prime minister Nawaz Sharif.But until Tuesday they had held back on threats to move on Islamabad's \"red zone\" which houses parliament, the prime minister's office and most foreign embassies.Such a move risked sparking a violent confrontation with police and the army, which in an unusual move had in recent weeks been called in to buttress security in the capital, with about 700 personnel posted inside the red zone.The challenge from the protesters puts Sharif in a difficult position. Major bloodshed defending the red zone could create the conditions for intervention by the country's powerful army, which has a long record of sacking civilian governments throughout Pakistan's turbulent history.At the risk of looking weak, Sharif opted to allow the demonstrators to move into the heart of the capital.No attempt was made to block the progress of marchers by police, many of whom were armed with nothing more than sticks.Protesters were even able to drive cranes into the capital to remove stacks of sea containers placed on key roads leading to the red zone.In a tweet, his daughter Maryam Sharif said the prime minister had ordered police \"not to use any kind of force against the protesters\" in order to protect the many women and children among them.Imran Khan, one of the leaders of the demonstrations, deliberately put women and children at the head of the marchers, while he was conveyed with senior party members on the roof of a specially converted sea container.Despite repeatedly claiming in a speech earlier in the evening that he would lead a peaceful demonstration, many of his supporters carried sticks and were prepared for tear gas with goggles.Khan, the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, is demanding the resignation of Sharif's government which he claims won a landslide victory in last year's general election on the basis of massive electoral fraud, although his allegations have not been supported by independent observers.He has promised to turn the area in front of Pakistan's national assembly building into a \"Tahrir Square\", referring to the 2011 protests in Cairo that ousted president Hosni Mubarak.On Monday he also announced the 34 members of his party who won seats will quit parliament.He has joined forces with Tahir-ul-Qadri, a Barelvi cleric with a considerable support base, who also wants to see the resignation of the government.Unlike Khan, Qadri does not want fresh elections but the establishment of a \"national government\" of technocrats.The protests in the capital have already gone on for five days. The prospect of the standoff continuing outside the nation's parliament could see the army playing an arbitration role.Late on Tuesday army spokesman General Asim Bajwa tweeted an appeal for \"patience, wisdom [and] sagacity from all stakeholders through larger national and public interest\".Over the last year Sharif has been weakened by damaging disputes with the powerful military establishment which removed him from power in the 1999 coup led by Pervez Musharraf.Despite an outright parliamentary majority, the ongoing political crisis is likely to weaken him further and could make him reliant on the army for his political survival.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "World news"], "title": "Protesters march on Pakistan parliament 'red zone'"},{"date": "2014-09-16T14:52:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Fury with a \"VIP culture\" that routinely sees commercial flights in Pakistan delayed to accommodate the schedule of politicians boiled over this week when passengers angrily prevented the country's former interior minister from boarding an aircraft.Fuming travellers had been waiting in their seats when Rehman Malik, one of the country's most recognisable politicians, sauntered down the air bridge to the Pakistan International Airlines jet more than 90 minutes after its scheduled departure from Karachi to Islamabad on Monday.Malik promptly turned tail when a furious group of travellers waiting by the door to the aircraft began heckling, with some chasing him back to the terminal building shouting and calling him a \"stupid dog\".\"Rehman Malik sahib, 250 passengers had to suffer because of you!\" One man could be heard shouting. \"You are not a minister any more and even if you were a minister we don't care, we don't care any more!\"Video of the event captured on passengers' phones went viral in a country where politicians are widely regarded as corrupt and deeply resented for the disruptions to daily life that they cause.That includes traffic jams created by the security convoys of ministers and the habit of turning up to political rallies many hours after the crowds who come to see them.One Facebook page hosting the video said the incident demonstrated the growing clout of Pakistan's middle class over traditional elites.\"The common man starts believing that respect is not about how much money you have or about the position that you hold,\" said Faheem Azam, an arts personality. \"When they understand that respect has to be earned by being fair, humble, honest, committed and sometimes by just being respectful towards others.\"While the former minister fled back to the safety of the airport, another government party politician called Ramesh Kumar Wakwani managed to board the plane only to be vigorously interrogated by suspicious passengers who demanded to know who he was.Initially he described himself merely as a \"doctor\" before eventually admitting to being an elected member of Pakistan's national assembly.That prompted jeers that he was behaving like a feudal lord and demands for him to leave the plane. Amid cries of \"shame\" he eventually surrendered his prized extra legroom seat in the front row of the economy class cabin.Malik defended himself on Twitter, saying he had not been responsible for the delay, which the state-owned national carrier said was due to technical reasons.\"I suffered equally,\" he said on Twitter \u2013 although unlike the other passengers he was allowed to wait in the comfort of the lounge.The stalwart of the opposition Pakistan People's party is one of the country's most colourful politicians, famous for his purple rinse hairstyle, odd pronouncements and for dashing to the scenes of the regular terrorist attacks that blighted his time as interior minister.Widely regarded as a buffoon, he compared himself to Winston Churchill, Peter Mandelson and David Miliband in an interview last year.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Airline industry", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Passenger rage forces Pakistan politician who delayed flight to flee"},{"date": "2014-08-19T22:25:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters swarmed towards Pakistan's parliament late on Tuesday night after using bolt cutters and cranes to swiftly remove barricades designed to keep them away from the most sensitive areas of the country's capital city.An estimated 50,000 protesters, led by an opposition politician and a Canada-based cleric, had been holding demonstrations in Islamabad for five days to demand the resignation of the government led by prime minister Nawaz Sharif.But until Tuesday they had held back on threats to move on Islamabad's \"red zone\" which houses parliament, the prime minister's office and most foreign embassies.Such a move risked sparking a violent confrontation with police and the army, which in an unusual move had in recent weeks been called in to buttress security in the capital, with about 700 personnel posted inside the red zone.The challenge from the protesters puts Sharif in a difficult position. Major bloodshed defending the red zone could create the conditions for intervention by the country's powerful army, which has a long record of sacking civilian governments throughout Pakistan's turbulent history.At the risk of looking weak, Sharif opted to allow the demonstrators to move into the heart of the capital.No attempt was made to block the progress of marchers by police, many of whom were armed with nothing more than sticks.Protesters were even able to drive cranes into the capital to remove stacks of sea containers placed on key roads leading to the red zone.In a tweet, his daughter Maryam Sharif said the prime minister had ordered police \"not to use any kind of force against the protesters\" in order to protect the many women and children among them.Imran Khan, one of the leaders of the demonstrations, deliberately put women and children at the head of the marchers, while he was conveyed with senior party members on the roof of a specially converted sea container.Despite repeatedly claiming in a speech earlier in the evening that he would lead a peaceful demonstration, many of his supporters carried sticks and were prepared for tear gas with goggles.Khan, the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, is demanding the resignation of Sharif's government which he claims won a landslide victory in last year's general election on the basis of massive electoral fraud, although his allegations have not been supported by independent observers.He has promised to turn the area in front of Pakistan's national assembly building into a \"Tahrir Square\", referring to the 2011 protests in Cairo that ousted president Hosni Mubarak.On Monday he also announced the 34 members of his party who won seats will quit parliament.He has joined forces with Tahir-ul-Qadri, a Barelvi cleric with a considerable support base, who also wants to see the resignation of the government.Unlike Khan, Qadri does not want fresh elections but the establishment of a \"national government\" of technocrats.The protests in the capital have already gone on for five days. The prospect of the standoff continuing outside the nation's parliament could see the army playing an arbitration role.Late on Tuesday army spokesman General Asim Bajwa tweeted an appeal for \"patience, wisdom [and] sagacity from all stakeholders through larger national and public interest\".Over the last year Sharif has been weakened by damaging disputes with the powerful military establishment which removed him from power in the 1999 coup led by Pervez Musharraf.Despite an outright parliamentary majority, the ongoing political crisis is likely to weaken him further and could make him reliant on the army for his political survival.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "World news"], "title": "Protesters march on Pakistan parliament 'red zone'"},{"date": "2014-09-16T14:52:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Fury with a \"VIP culture\" that routinely sees commercial flights in Pakistan delayed to accommodate the schedule of politicians boiled over this week when passengers angrily prevented the country's former interior minister from boarding an aircraft.Fuming travellers had been waiting in their seats when Rehman Malik, one of the country's most recognisable politicians, sauntered down the air bridge to the Pakistan International Airlines jet more than 90 minutes after its scheduled departure from Karachi to Islamabad on Monday.Malik promptly turned tail when a furious group of travellers waiting by the door to the aircraft began heckling, with some chasing him back to the terminal building shouting and calling him a \"stupid dog\".\"Rehman Malik sahib, 250 passengers had to suffer because of you!\" One man could be heard shouting. \"You are not a minister any more and even if you were a minister we don't care, we don't care any more!\"Video of the event captured on passengers' phones went viral in a country where politicians are widely regarded as corrupt and deeply resented for the disruptions to daily life that they cause.That includes traffic jams created by the security convoys of ministers and the habit of turning up to political rallies many hours after the crowds who come to see them.One Facebook page hosting the video said the incident demonstrated the growing clout of Pakistan's middle class over traditional elites.\"The common man starts believing that respect is not about how much money you have or about the position that you hold,\" said Faheem Azam, an arts personality. \"When they understand that respect has to be earned by being fair, humble, honest, committed and sometimes by just being respectful towards others.\"While the former minister fled back to the safety of the airport, another government party politician called Ramesh Kumar Wakwani managed to board the plane only to be vigorously interrogated by suspicious passengers who demanded to know who he was.Initially he described himself merely as a \"doctor\" before eventually admitting to being an elected member of Pakistan's national assembly.That prompted jeers that he was behaving like a feudal lord and demands for him to leave the plane. Amid cries of \"shame\" he eventually surrendered his prized extra legroom seat in the front row of the economy class cabin.Malik defended himself on Twitter, saying he had not been responsible for the delay, which the state-owned national carrier said was due to technical reasons.\"I suffered equally,\" he said on Twitter \u2013 although unlike the other passengers he was allowed to wait in the comfort of the lounge.The stalwart of the opposition Pakistan People's party is one of the country's most colourful politicians, famous for his purple rinse hairstyle, odd pronouncements and for dashing to the scenes of the regular terrorist attacks that blighted his time as interior minister.Widely regarded as a buffoon, he compared himself to Winston Churchill, Peter Mandelson and David Miliband in an interview last year.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Airline industry", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Passenger rage forces Pakistan politician who delayed flight to flee"},{"date": "2014-09-10T08:25:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A more plot-heavy trailer for the fourth season of Homeland has been released, detailing where the political thriller is going next, following the loss of key character Nicholas Brody (Damian Lewis) in Iran at the end of a patchy season three. With showrunner Alex Gansa promising a \u201creset\u201d, the action has moved to Pakistan. A drone strike has hit what appears to be a children\u2019s party, and with a video of the attack being leaked online, the US government - in the form of slippery Senator Lockhart - is forced to defend its actions.Carrie is back in the field, where she is joined by Saul (so what happened to that private contractor gig he landed at the end of the third run?). She appears to be simultaneously struggling with motherhood, perhaps because they have managed to cast a baby who looks almost terrifyingly like its on-screen father.Much of Homeland\u2019s initial strength came from its ability to negotiate murky moral waters, and though it may be premature to predict a return to season one form, the new trailer does offer a little hope that the show may find its feet again. Plus - no Dana Brody!Homeland returns with a double-bill in the US on 5 October on Showtime, and will be on Channel 4 later this year.", "tags": ["Homeland", "Television", "Television & radio", "Drama", "Culture", "US television", "Damian Lewis"], "title": "Homeland season four trailer: drone strikes, Pakistan and baby Brody"},{"date": "2014-08-19T22:25:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters swarmed towards Pakistan's parliament late on Tuesday night after using bolt cutters and cranes to swiftly remove barricades designed to keep them away from the most sensitive areas of the country's capital city.An estimated 50,000 protesters, led by an opposition politician and a Canada-based cleric, had been holding demonstrations in Islamabad for five days to demand the resignation of the government led by prime minister Nawaz Sharif.But until Tuesday they had held back on threats to move on Islamabad's \"red zone\" which houses parliament, the prime minister's office and most foreign embassies.Such a move risked sparking a violent confrontation with police and the army, which in an unusual move had in recent weeks been called in to buttress security in the capital, with about 700 personnel posted inside the red zone.The challenge from the protesters puts Sharif in a difficult position. Major bloodshed defending the red zone could create the conditions for intervention by the country's powerful army, which has a long record of sacking civilian governments throughout Pakistan's turbulent history.At the risk of looking weak, Sharif opted to allow the demonstrators to move into the heart of the capital.No attempt was made to block the progress of marchers by police, many of whom were armed with nothing more than sticks.Protesters were even able to drive cranes into the capital to remove stacks of sea containers placed on key roads leading to the red zone.In a tweet, his daughter Maryam Sharif said the prime minister had ordered police \"not to use any kind of force against the protesters\" in order to protect the many women and children among them.Imran Khan, one of the leaders of the demonstrations, deliberately put women and children at the head of the marchers, while he was conveyed with senior party members on the roof of a specially converted sea container.Despite repeatedly claiming in a speech earlier in the evening that he would lead a peaceful demonstration, many of his supporters carried sticks and were prepared for tear gas with goggles.Khan, the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, is demanding the resignation of Sharif's government which he claims won a landslide victory in last year's general election on the basis of massive electoral fraud, although his allegations have not been supported by independent observers.He has promised to turn the area in front of Pakistan's national assembly building into a \"Tahrir Square\", referring to the 2011 protests in Cairo that ousted president Hosni Mubarak.On Monday he also announced the 34 members of his party who won seats will quit parliament.He has joined forces with Tahir-ul-Qadri, a Barelvi cleric with a considerable support base, who also wants to see the resignation of the government.Unlike Khan, Qadri does not want fresh elections but the establishment of a \"national government\" of technocrats.The protests in the capital have already gone on for five days. The prospect of the standoff continuing outside the nation's parliament could see the army playing an arbitration role.Late on Tuesday army spokesman General Asim Bajwa tweeted an appeal for \"patience, wisdom [and] sagacity from all stakeholders through larger national and public interest\".Over the last year Sharif has been weakened by damaging disputes with the powerful military establishment which removed him from power in the 1999 coup led by Pervez Musharraf.Despite an outright parliamentary majority, the ongoing political crisis is likely to weaken him further and could make him reliant on the army for his political survival.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "World news"], "title": "Protesters march on Pakistan parliament 'red zone'"},{"date": "2014-09-16T14:52:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Fury with a \"VIP culture\" that routinely sees commercial flights in Pakistan delayed to accommodate the schedule of politicians boiled over this week when passengers angrily prevented the country's former interior minister from boarding an aircraft.Fuming travellers had been waiting in their seats when Rehman Malik, one of the country's most recognisable politicians, sauntered down the air bridge to the Pakistan International Airlines jet more than 90 minutes after its scheduled departure from Karachi to Islamabad on Monday.Malik promptly turned tail when a furious group of travellers waiting by the door to the aircraft began heckling, with some chasing him back to the terminal building shouting and calling him a \"stupid dog\".\"Rehman Malik sahib, 250 passengers had to suffer because of you!\" One man could be heard shouting. \"You are not a minister any more and even if you were a minister we don't care, we don't care any more!\"Video of the event captured on passengers' phones went viral in a country where politicians are widely regarded as corrupt and deeply resented for the disruptions to daily life that they cause.That includes traffic jams created by the security convoys of ministers and the habit of turning up to political rallies many hours after the crowds who come to see them.One Facebook page hosting the video said the incident demonstrated the growing clout of Pakistan's middle class over traditional elites.\"The common man starts believing that respect is not about how much money you have or about the position that you hold,\" said Faheem Azam, an arts personality. \"When they understand that respect has to be earned by being fair, humble, honest, committed and sometimes by just being respectful towards others.\"While the former minister fled back to the safety of the airport, another government party politician called Ramesh Kumar Wakwani managed to board the plane only to be vigorously interrogated by suspicious passengers who demanded to know who he was.Initially he described himself merely as a \"doctor\" before eventually admitting to being an elected member of Pakistan's national assembly.That prompted jeers that he was behaving like a feudal lord and demands for him to leave the plane. Amid cries of \"shame\" he eventually surrendered his prized extra legroom seat in the front row of the economy class cabin.Malik defended himself on Twitter, saying he had not been responsible for the delay, which the state-owned national carrier said was due to technical reasons.\"I suffered equally,\" he said on Twitter \u2013 although unlike the other passengers he was allowed to wait in the comfort of the lounge.The stalwart of the opposition Pakistan People's party is one of the country's most colourful politicians, famous for his purple rinse hairstyle, odd pronouncements and for dashing to the scenes of the regular terrorist attacks that blighted his time as interior minister.Widely regarded as a buffoon, he compared himself to Winston Churchill, Peter Mandelson and David Miliband in an interview last year.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Airline industry", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Passenger rage forces Pakistan politician who delayed flight to flee"},{"date": "2014-09-10T08:25:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A more plot-heavy trailer for the fourth season of Homeland has been released, detailing where the political thriller is going next, following the loss of key character Nicholas Brody (Damian Lewis) in Iran at the end of a patchy season three. With showrunner Alex Gansa promising a \u201creset\u201d, the action has moved to Pakistan. A drone strike has hit what appears to be a children\u2019s party, and with a video of the attack being leaked online, the US government - in the form of slippery Senator Lockhart - is forced to defend its actions.Carrie is back in the field, where she is joined by Saul (so what happened to that private contractor gig he landed at the end of the third run?). She appears to be simultaneously struggling with motherhood, perhaps because they have managed to cast a baby who looks almost terrifyingly like its on-screen father.Much of Homeland\u2019s initial strength came from its ability to negotiate murky moral waters, and though it may be premature to predict a return to season one form, the new trailer does offer a little hope that the show may find its feet again. Plus - no Dana Brody!Homeland returns with a double-bill in the US on 5 October on Showtime, and will be on Channel 4 later this year.", "tags": ["Homeland", "Television", "Television & radio", "Drama", "Culture", "US television", "Damian Lewis"], "title": "Homeland season four trailer: drone strikes, Pakistan and baby Brody"},{"date": "2014-09-09T10:00:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Staff absenteeism at health centres across Africa and South Asia is notoriously high. Our baseline measurement at clinics in rural Punjab, Pakistan found doctors to be absent 58% of the time. As so often is the case with service delivery in developing countries \u2013 and with economic development in general \u2013 links along the chain are opportunities for the process to break down. All of these links depend on humans. We wondered if measurable personality traits affect how public servants perform, and how understanding this relationship might help improve service delivery.Several studies, in particular those led by Nobel laureate James Heckman, have shown that five personality traits \u2013 openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness and neuroticism \u2013 are robust predictors of behaviour. Another study shows that the personality types who take a government job changes depending on the wage. Motivated by their methodology, we decided to test if the five personality traits \u2013 along with a sixth, public sector motivation \u2013 affect how public servants perform.We applied personality tests to three tiers of public servants (doctors, inspectors and senior officials) across the 36 districts of Punjab. Notably, the senior officials are responsible for public healthcare affecting millions of people. In random districts, we replaced the paper-based system with smartphones that fed attendance data straight up the chain. We conducted unannounced visits to health facilities and developed a way of measuring collusion between inspectors and clinic doctors. Finally, we created an index of traits that could be desirable in a civil servant, such as emotional stability, conscientiousness and agreeableness.Three major results emerged from the experiment. First, a high score on our index predicts that doctors will show up to work and negatively predicts that they will collude with inspectors to falsify reports. Second, smartphone monitoring has the largest impact on inspectors who have a high index score. Third, senior health officials with high index scores are more likely than others to respond to a report of an underperforming clinic. All of these effects are large and statistically significant.In short, our study suggests that strategically placing officials who show the right combination of personality traits, and combining this placement with smart policies, can greatly improve outcomes for the public, at a relatively low cost.But if such results are replicated in a variety of contexts and turned into policy, will we end up in a brave new world where people are tested and directed to the positions deemed desirable? We think not. To understand why, it is important to take a step back.Despite how we tend to see our own personalities, traits are not static. For one thing, they change over our lifetimes. Psychologist Brent Roberts has shown that the trait conscientiousness takes gradual steps up throughout the lifetime \u2013 including a considerable jump between 45 and 55. Secondly, there is evidence that certain traits can be manipulated. James Heckman and coauthors showed this using long-range data from the Perry Preschool Programme that gave added emotional and social support to disadvantaged children. Heckman\u2019s recent study shows that treatment children, now in their 40s, show greater success on a variety of socioeconomic measures \u2013 evidence that altered personality traits made the difference.Whether traits can be manipulated once individuals mature, however, remains an open question. Experiments could determine if training programmes can be used to alter civil servant traits in a beneficial way. More broadly, adding social supports early in life could have benefits for individuals and societies down the road.Guiding people into certain positions at certain ages may have benefits too. Based on estimates from our study, if the government of Punjab (population 100 million) replaced the bottom 25% of doctors with average doctors in terms of conscientiousness, for example, 9,500 more patients would be seen every month. While the estimates underlying this are admittedly rough, and while we are not advocating firing any doctors, it suggests that taking personality measurement seriously could open new doors that would greatly improve the provision of services.To return to the short term, however, our study may have a more practical use for development practitioners. Generally, practitioners and researchers tend to focus on reforms that strengthen incentives. Our findings give us confidence that changing the composition of the workforce by attracting better people, promoting better people, and/or better tailoring their individual incentives can improve health service delivery.Our study gives a sense of how things get accomplished in settings where existing incentive schemes should lead to nothing getting done. In our setting, there is little chance of being fired for being absent, yet doctors are still present 42% of the time. This is a depressingly low number, but it is not zero as would be predicted considering only the incentives. After all, why would one go to work when they do not need to do so to get paid?Given these realities, new policies and new information can be intelligently targeted at civil servants who are identified by personality tests as more intrinsically motivated. Such policies might provide useful complements to more traditional strategies \u2013 such as increasing worker monitoring or performance incentives \u2013 and provide the basis for additional, cost-effective policies for better public health.Arman Rezaee is a PhD candidate at the University of California San Diego and Michael Callen is an assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School. Follow @arezaee and @EPoDHarvard on Twitter. Read more stories like this:\u2022 The toughest job in Nigerian healthcare\u2022 Task shifting explained: a viable solution to health worker shortage?\u2022 Power to the people: how open data is improving health service deliveryJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global health innovation - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Technology", "Research", "Pakistan", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Psychology", "Science", "Hospitals", "Doctors"], "title": "How can personality tests improve the health service in Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-08-19T22:25:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters swarmed towards Pakistan's parliament late on Tuesday night after using bolt cutters and cranes to swiftly remove barricades designed to keep them away from the most sensitive areas of the country's capital city.An estimated 50,000 protesters, led by an opposition politician and a Canada-based cleric, had been holding demonstrations in Islamabad for five days to demand the resignation of the government led by prime minister Nawaz Sharif.But until Tuesday they had held back on threats to move on Islamabad's \"red zone\" which houses parliament, the prime minister's office and most foreign embassies.Such a move risked sparking a violent confrontation with police and the army, which in an unusual move had in recent weeks been called in to buttress security in the capital, with about 700 personnel posted inside the red zone.The challenge from the protesters puts Sharif in a difficult position. Major bloodshed defending the red zone could create the conditions for intervention by the country's powerful army, which has a long record of sacking civilian governments throughout Pakistan's turbulent history.At the risk of looking weak, Sharif opted to allow the demonstrators to move into the heart of the capital.No attempt was made to block the progress of marchers by police, many of whom were armed with nothing more than sticks.Protesters were even able to drive cranes into the capital to remove stacks of sea containers placed on key roads leading to the red zone.In a tweet, his daughter Maryam Sharif said the prime minister had ordered police \"not to use any kind of force against the protesters\" in order to protect the many women and children among them.Imran Khan, one of the leaders of the demonstrations, deliberately put women and children at the head of the marchers, while he was conveyed with senior party members on the roof of a specially converted sea container.Despite repeatedly claiming in a speech earlier in the evening that he would lead a peaceful demonstration, many of his supporters carried sticks and were prepared for tear gas with goggles.Khan, the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, is demanding the resignation of Sharif's government which he claims won a landslide victory in last year's general election on the basis of massive electoral fraud, although his allegations have not been supported by independent observers.He has promised to turn the area in front of Pakistan's national assembly building into a \"Tahrir Square\", referring to the 2011 protests in Cairo that ousted president Hosni Mubarak.On Monday he also announced the 34 members of his party who won seats will quit parliament.He has joined forces with Tahir-ul-Qadri, a Barelvi cleric with a considerable support base, who also wants to see the resignation of the government.Unlike Khan, Qadri does not want fresh elections but the establishment of a \"national government\" of technocrats.The protests in the capital have already gone on for five days. The prospect of the standoff continuing outside the nation's parliament could see the army playing an arbitration role.Late on Tuesday army spokesman General Asim Bajwa tweeted an appeal for \"patience, wisdom [and] sagacity from all stakeholders through larger national and public interest\".Over the last year Sharif has been weakened by damaging disputes with the powerful military establishment which removed him from power in the 1999 coup led by Pervez Musharraf.Despite an outright parliamentary majority, the ongoing political crisis is likely to weaken him further and could make him reliant on the army for his political survival.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "World news"], "title": "Protesters march on Pakistan parliament 'red zone'"},{"date": "2014-09-16T14:52:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Fury with a \"VIP culture\" that routinely sees commercial flights in Pakistan delayed to accommodate the schedule of politicians boiled over this week when passengers angrily prevented the country's former interior minister from boarding an aircraft.Fuming travellers had been waiting in their seats when Rehman Malik, one of the country's most recognisable politicians, sauntered down the air bridge to the Pakistan International Airlines jet more than 90 minutes after its scheduled departure from Karachi to Islamabad on Monday.Malik promptly turned tail when a furious group of travellers waiting by the door to the aircraft began heckling, with some chasing him back to the terminal building shouting and calling him a \"stupid dog\".\"Rehman Malik sahib, 250 passengers had to suffer because of you!\" One man could be heard shouting. \"You are not a minister any more and even if you were a minister we don't care, we don't care any more!\"Video of the event captured on passengers' phones went viral in a country where politicians are widely regarded as corrupt and deeply resented for the disruptions to daily life that they cause.That includes traffic jams created by the security convoys of ministers and the habit of turning up to political rallies many hours after the crowds who come to see them.One Facebook page hosting the video said the incident demonstrated the growing clout of Pakistan's middle class over traditional elites.\"The common man starts believing that respect is not about how much money you have or about the position that you hold,\" said Faheem Azam, an arts personality. \"When they understand that respect has to be earned by being fair, humble, honest, committed and sometimes by just being respectful towards others.\"While the former minister fled back to the safety of the airport, another government party politician called Ramesh Kumar Wakwani managed to board the plane only to be vigorously interrogated by suspicious passengers who demanded to know who he was.Initially he described himself merely as a \"doctor\" before eventually admitting to being an elected member of Pakistan's national assembly.That prompted jeers that he was behaving like a feudal lord and demands for him to leave the plane. Amid cries of \"shame\" he eventually surrendered his prized extra legroom seat in the front row of the economy class cabin.Malik defended himself on Twitter, saying he had not been responsible for the delay, which the state-owned national carrier said was due to technical reasons.\"I suffered equally,\" he said on Twitter \u2013 although unlike the other passengers he was allowed to wait in the comfort of the lounge.The stalwart of the opposition Pakistan People's party is one of the country's most colourful politicians, famous for his purple rinse hairstyle, odd pronouncements and for dashing to the scenes of the regular terrorist attacks that blighted his time as interior minister.Widely regarded as a buffoon, he compared himself to Winston Churchill, Peter Mandelson and David Miliband in an interview last year.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Airline industry", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Passenger rage forces Pakistan politician who delayed flight to flee"},{"date": "2014-09-10T08:25:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A more plot-heavy trailer for the fourth season of Homeland has been released, detailing where the political thriller is going next, following the loss of key character Nicholas Brody (Damian Lewis) in Iran at the end of a patchy season three. With showrunner Alex Gansa promising a \u201creset\u201d, the action has moved to Pakistan. A drone strike has hit what appears to be a children\u2019s party, and with a video of the attack being leaked online, the US government - in the form of slippery Senator Lockhart - is forced to defend its actions.Carrie is back in the field, where she is joined by Saul (so what happened to that private contractor gig he landed at the end of the third run?). She appears to be simultaneously struggling with motherhood, perhaps because they have managed to cast a baby who looks almost terrifyingly like its on-screen father.Much of Homeland\u2019s initial strength came from its ability to negotiate murky moral waters, and though it may be premature to predict a return to season one form, the new trailer does offer a little hope that the show may find its feet again. Plus - no Dana Brody!Homeland returns with a double-bill in the US on 5 October on Showtime, and will be on Channel 4 later this year.", "tags": ["Homeland", "Television", "Television & radio", "Drama", "Culture", "US television", "Damian Lewis"], "title": "Homeland season four trailer: drone strikes, Pakistan and baby Brody"},{"date": "2014-09-09T10:00:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Staff absenteeism at health centres across Africa and South Asia is notoriously high. Our baseline measurement at clinics in rural Punjab, Pakistan found doctors to be absent 58% of the time. As so often is the case with service delivery in developing countries \u2013 and with economic development in general \u2013 links along the chain are opportunities for the process to break down. All of these links depend on humans. We wondered if measurable personality traits affect how public servants perform, and how understanding this relationship might help improve service delivery.Several studies, in particular those led by Nobel laureate James Heckman, have shown that five personality traits \u2013 openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness and neuroticism \u2013 are robust predictors of behaviour. Another study shows that the personality types who take a government job changes depending on the wage. Motivated by their methodology, we decided to test if the five personality traits \u2013 along with a sixth, public sector motivation \u2013 affect how public servants perform.We applied personality tests to three tiers of public servants (doctors, inspectors and senior officials) across the 36 districts of Punjab. Notably, the senior officials are responsible for public healthcare affecting millions of people. In random districts, we replaced the paper-based system with smartphones that fed attendance data straight up the chain. We conducted unannounced visits to health facilities and developed a way of measuring collusion between inspectors and clinic doctors. Finally, we created an index of traits that could be desirable in a civil servant, such as emotional stability, conscientiousness and agreeableness.Three major results emerged from the experiment. First, a high score on our index predicts that doctors will show up to work and negatively predicts that they will collude with inspectors to falsify reports. Second, smartphone monitoring has the largest impact on inspectors who have a high index score. Third, senior health officials with high index scores are more likely than others to respond to a report of an underperforming clinic. All of these effects are large and statistically significant.In short, our study suggests that strategically placing officials who show the right combination of personality traits, and combining this placement with smart policies, can greatly improve outcomes for the public, at a relatively low cost.But if such results are replicated in a variety of contexts and turned into policy, will we end up in a brave new world where people are tested and directed to the positions deemed desirable? We think not. To understand why, it is important to take a step back.Despite how we tend to see our own personalities, traits are not static. For one thing, they change over our lifetimes. Psychologist Brent Roberts has shown that the trait conscientiousness takes gradual steps up throughout the lifetime \u2013 including a considerable jump between 45 and 55. Secondly, there is evidence that certain traits can be manipulated. James Heckman and coauthors showed this using long-range data from the Perry Preschool Programme that gave added emotional and social support to disadvantaged children. Heckman\u2019s recent study shows that treatment children, now in their 40s, show greater success on a variety of socioeconomic measures \u2013 evidence that altered personality traits made the difference.Whether traits can be manipulated once individuals mature, however, remains an open question. Experiments could determine if training programmes can be used to alter civil servant traits in a beneficial way. More broadly, adding social supports early in life could have benefits for individuals and societies down the road.Guiding people into certain positions at certain ages may have benefits too. Based on estimates from our study, if the government of Punjab (population 100 million) replaced the bottom 25% of doctors with average doctors in terms of conscientiousness, for example, 9,500 more patients would be seen every month. While the estimates underlying this are admittedly rough, and while we are not advocating firing any doctors, it suggests that taking personality measurement seriously could open new doors that would greatly improve the provision of services.To return to the short term, however, our study may have a more practical use for development practitioners. Generally, practitioners and researchers tend to focus on reforms that strengthen incentives. Our findings give us confidence that changing the composition of the workforce by attracting better people, promoting better people, and/or better tailoring their individual incentives can improve health service delivery.Our study gives a sense of how things get accomplished in settings where existing incentive schemes should lead to nothing getting done. In our setting, there is little chance of being fired for being absent, yet doctors are still present 42% of the time. This is a depressingly low number, but it is not zero as would be predicted considering only the incentives. After all, why would one go to work when they do not need to do so to get paid?Given these realities, new policies and new information can be intelligently targeted at civil servants who are identified by personality tests as more intrinsically motivated. Such policies might provide useful complements to more traditional strategies \u2013 such as increasing worker monitoring or performance incentives \u2013 and provide the basis for additional, cost-effective policies for better public health.Arman Rezaee is a PhD candidate at the University of California San Diego and Michael Callen is an assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School. Follow @arezaee and @EPoDHarvard on Twitter. Read more stories like this:\u2022 The toughest job in Nigerian healthcare\u2022 Task shifting explained: a viable solution to health worker shortage?\u2022 Power to the people: how open data is improving health service deliveryJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global health innovation - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Technology", "Research", "Pakistan", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Psychology", "Science", "Hospitals", "Doctors"], "title": "How can personality tests improve the health service in Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-08-29T16:31:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A kiss is just a kiss \u2013 unless it is in the colourful world of Bollywood and it takes place between Pakistan's highest paid female actor and an up and coming Indian screen star.A scene in a new film, Raja Natwarlal, starring Pakistan's sweetheart Humaima Malick and actor Emraan Hashmi has caused a huge row in Malick's homeland \u2013 and is expected to be cut from the film before it is released there.Raja Natwarlal, realised in the UK on Friday, is typical Bollywood fare, in which Malick plays a dancer in a bar who falls in love with a conman seeking to avenge the death of his partner in crime. The \"love\" scene is steamier than usual and there's no doubt the film has benefited from all the column inches this has generated.Kissing scenes have only been a recent phenomenon in Bollywood after the relaxation of strict censorship rules. Prior to that, stars were restricted to conveying passion through stares and the implied raunchiness of dance routines. However, in Pakistan there is still a huge stigma attached and many people have accused Malick of selling out her Pakistani heritage.In reply, she said the backlash was largely due to the fact that she was kissing an Indian man.\"Films in India do\u00a0show intimacy through an occasional full lipped kiss\u00a0and I\u00a0was very reluctant to share a kiss with my co-star,\" she said. \"But the director explained how it doesn't cross the line\u00a0between romance and sleaze. I had\u00a0to trust\u00a0my director's sensibilities.\"I did face some backlash and mostly it was because 'our' woman was involved in a kissing scene and it was considered worse because it was with a guy who was not Pakistani.\"She added that women were judged more harshly than men. \"Local media and society has an obvious\u00a0bias towards male actors and men in general and the morality standards are different for women.\u00a0Sexism occurs all over the world, not just in Pakistan. \u00a0\"People have to understand I am playing a role. Having said that, I think people are less worked up by the scene than they would have been five or 10 years ago. The new generation have grown up with Hollywood and Bollywood films. Put it this way, I haven't had any death threats yet. \"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Bollywood", "World news", "Film", "India", "Culture"], "title": "Humaima Malick's cross-border Bollywood kiss sparks row in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-08-19T22:25:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters swarmed towards Pakistan's parliament late on Tuesday night after using bolt cutters and cranes to swiftly remove barricades designed to keep them away from the most sensitive areas of the country's capital city.An estimated 50,000 protesters, led by an opposition politician and a Canada-based cleric, had been holding demonstrations in Islamabad for five days to demand the resignation of the government led by prime minister Nawaz Sharif.But until Tuesday they had held back on threats to move on Islamabad's \"red zone\" which houses parliament, the prime minister's office and most foreign embassies.Such a move risked sparking a violent confrontation with police and the army, which in an unusual move had in recent weeks been called in to buttress security in the capital, with about 700 personnel posted inside the red zone.The challenge from the protesters puts Sharif in a difficult position. Major bloodshed defending the red zone could create the conditions for intervention by the country's powerful army, which has a long record of sacking civilian governments throughout Pakistan's turbulent history.At the risk of looking weak, Sharif opted to allow the demonstrators to move into the heart of the capital.No attempt was made to block the progress of marchers by police, many of whom were armed with nothing more than sticks.Protesters were even able to drive cranes into the capital to remove stacks of sea containers placed on key roads leading to the red zone.In a tweet, his daughter Maryam Sharif said the prime minister had ordered police \"not to use any kind of force against the protesters\" in order to protect the many women and children among them.Imran Khan, one of the leaders of the demonstrations, deliberately put women and children at the head of the marchers, while he was conveyed with senior party members on the roof of a specially converted sea container.Despite repeatedly claiming in a speech earlier in the evening that he would lead a peaceful demonstration, many of his supporters carried sticks and were prepared for tear gas with goggles.Khan, the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, is demanding the resignation of Sharif's government which he claims won a landslide victory in last year's general election on the basis of massive electoral fraud, although his allegations have not been supported by independent observers.He has promised to turn the area in front of Pakistan's national assembly building into a \"Tahrir Square\", referring to the 2011 protests in Cairo that ousted president Hosni Mubarak.On Monday he also announced the 34 members of his party who won seats will quit parliament.He has joined forces with Tahir-ul-Qadri, a Barelvi cleric with a considerable support base, who also wants to see the resignation of the government.Unlike Khan, Qadri does not want fresh elections but the establishment of a \"national government\" of technocrats.The protests in the capital have already gone on for five days. The prospect of the standoff continuing outside the nation's parliament could see the army playing an arbitration role.Late on Tuesday army spokesman General Asim Bajwa tweeted an appeal for \"patience, wisdom [and] sagacity from all stakeholders through larger national and public interest\".Over the last year Sharif has been weakened by damaging disputes with the powerful military establishment which removed him from power in the 1999 coup led by Pervez Musharraf.Despite an outright parliamentary majority, the ongoing political crisis is likely to weaken him further and could make him reliant on the army for his political survival.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "World news"], "title": "Protesters march on Pakistan parliament 'red zone'"},{"date": "2014-09-16T14:52:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Fury with a \"VIP culture\" that routinely sees commercial flights in Pakistan delayed to accommodate the schedule of politicians boiled over this week when passengers angrily prevented the country's former interior minister from boarding an aircraft.Fuming travellers had been waiting in their seats when Rehman Malik, one of the country's most recognisable politicians, sauntered down the air bridge to the Pakistan International Airlines jet more than 90 minutes after its scheduled departure from Karachi to Islamabad on Monday.Malik promptly turned tail when a furious group of travellers waiting by the door to the aircraft began heckling, with some chasing him back to the terminal building shouting and calling him a \"stupid dog\".\"Rehman Malik sahib, 250 passengers had to suffer because of you!\" One man could be heard shouting. \"You are not a minister any more and even if you were a minister we don't care, we don't care any more!\"Video of the event captured on passengers' phones went viral in a country where politicians are widely regarded as corrupt and deeply resented for the disruptions to daily life that they cause.That includes traffic jams created by the security convoys of ministers and the habit of turning up to political rallies many hours after the crowds who come to see them.One Facebook page hosting the video said the incident demonstrated the growing clout of Pakistan's middle class over traditional elites.\"The common man starts believing that respect is not about how much money you have or about the position that you hold,\" said Faheem Azam, an arts personality. \"When they understand that respect has to be earned by being fair, humble, honest, committed and sometimes by just being respectful towards others.\"While the former minister fled back to the safety of the airport, another government party politician called Ramesh Kumar Wakwani managed to board the plane only to be vigorously interrogated by suspicious passengers who demanded to know who he was.Initially he described himself merely as a \"doctor\" before eventually admitting to being an elected member of Pakistan's national assembly.That prompted jeers that he was behaving like a feudal lord and demands for him to leave the plane. Amid cries of \"shame\" he eventually surrendered his prized extra legroom seat in the front row of the economy class cabin.Malik defended himself on Twitter, saying he had not been responsible for the delay, which the state-owned national carrier said was due to technical reasons.\"I suffered equally,\" he said on Twitter \u2013 although unlike the other passengers he was allowed to wait in the comfort of the lounge.The stalwart of the opposition Pakistan People's party is one of the country's most colourful politicians, famous for his purple rinse hairstyle, odd pronouncements and for dashing to the scenes of the regular terrorist attacks that blighted his time as interior minister.Widely regarded as a buffoon, he compared himself to Winston Churchill, Peter Mandelson and David Miliband in an interview last year.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Airline industry", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Passenger rage forces Pakistan politician who delayed flight to flee"},{"date": "2014-09-10T08:25:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A more plot-heavy trailer for the fourth season of Homeland has been released, detailing where the political thriller is going next, following the loss of key character Nicholas Brody (Damian Lewis) in Iran at the end of a patchy season three. With showrunner Alex Gansa promising a \u201creset\u201d, the action has moved to Pakistan. A drone strike has hit what appears to be a children\u2019s party, and with a video of the attack being leaked online, the US government - in the form of slippery Senator Lockhart - is forced to defend its actions.Carrie is back in the field, where she is joined by Saul (so what happened to that private contractor gig he landed at the end of the third run?). She appears to be simultaneously struggling with motherhood, perhaps because they have managed to cast a baby who looks almost terrifyingly like its on-screen father.Much of Homeland\u2019s initial strength came from its ability to negotiate murky moral waters, and though it may be premature to predict a return to season one form, the new trailer does offer a little hope that the show may find its feet again. Plus - no Dana Brody!Homeland returns with a double-bill in the US on 5 October on Showtime, and will be on Channel 4 later this year.", "tags": ["Homeland", "Television", "Television & radio", "Drama", "Culture", "US television", "Damian Lewis"], "title": "Homeland season four trailer: drone strikes, Pakistan and baby Brody"},{"date": "2014-09-09T10:00:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Staff absenteeism at health centres across Africa and South Asia is notoriously high. Our baseline measurement at clinics in rural Punjab, Pakistan found doctors to be absent 58% of the time. As so often is the case with service delivery in developing countries \u2013 and with economic development in general \u2013 links along the chain are opportunities for the process to break down. All of these links depend on humans. We wondered if measurable personality traits affect how public servants perform, and how understanding this relationship might help improve service delivery.Several studies, in particular those led by Nobel laureate James Heckman, have shown that five personality traits \u2013 openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness and neuroticism \u2013 are robust predictors of behaviour. Another study shows that the personality types who take a government job changes depending on the wage. Motivated by their methodology, we decided to test if the five personality traits \u2013 along with a sixth, public sector motivation \u2013 affect how public servants perform.We applied personality tests to three tiers of public servants (doctors, inspectors and senior officials) across the 36 districts of Punjab. Notably, the senior officials are responsible for public healthcare affecting millions of people. In random districts, we replaced the paper-based system with smartphones that fed attendance data straight up the chain. We conducted unannounced visits to health facilities and developed a way of measuring collusion between inspectors and clinic doctors. Finally, we created an index of traits that could be desirable in a civil servant, such as emotional stability, conscientiousness and agreeableness.Three major results emerged from the experiment. First, a high score on our index predicts that doctors will show up to work and negatively predicts that they will collude with inspectors to falsify reports. Second, smartphone monitoring has the largest impact on inspectors who have a high index score. Third, senior health officials with high index scores are more likely than others to respond to a report of an underperforming clinic. All of these effects are large and statistically significant.In short, our study suggests that strategically placing officials who show the right combination of personality traits, and combining this placement with smart policies, can greatly improve outcomes for the public, at a relatively low cost.But if such results are replicated in a variety of contexts and turned into policy, will we end up in a brave new world where people are tested and directed to the positions deemed desirable? We think not. To understand why, it is important to take a step back.Despite how we tend to see our own personalities, traits are not static. For one thing, they change over our lifetimes. Psychologist Brent Roberts has shown that the trait conscientiousness takes gradual steps up throughout the lifetime \u2013 including a considerable jump between 45 and 55. Secondly, there is evidence that certain traits can be manipulated. James Heckman and coauthors showed this using long-range data from the Perry Preschool Programme that gave added emotional and social support to disadvantaged children. Heckman\u2019s recent study shows that treatment children, now in their 40s, show greater success on a variety of socioeconomic measures \u2013 evidence that altered personality traits made the difference.Whether traits can be manipulated once individuals mature, however, remains an open question. Experiments could determine if training programmes can be used to alter civil servant traits in a beneficial way. More broadly, adding social supports early in life could have benefits for individuals and societies down the road.Guiding people into certain positions at certain ages may have benefits too. Based on estimates from our study, if the government of Punjab (population 100 million) replaced the bottom 25% of doctors with average doctors in terms of conscientiousness, for example, 9,500 more patients would be seen every month. While the estimates underlying this are admittedly rough, and while we are not advocating firing any doctors, it suggests that taking personality measurement seriously could open new doors that would greatly improve the provision of services.To return to the short term, however, our study may have a more practical use for development practitioners. Generally, practitioners and researchers tend to focus on reforms that strengthen incentives. Our findings give us confidence that changing the composition of the workforce by attracting better people, promoting better people, and/or better tailoring their individual incentives can improve health service delivery.Our study gives a sense of how things get accomplished in settings where existing incentive schemes should lead to nothing getting done. In our setting, there is little chance of being fired for being absent, yet doctors are still present 42% of the time. This is a depressingly low number, but it is not zero as would be predicted considering only the incentives. After all, why would one go to work when they do not need to do so to get paid?Given these realities, new policies and new information can be intelligently targeted at civil servants who are identified by personality tests as more intrinsically motivated. Such policies might provide useful complements to more traditional strategies \u2013 such as increasing worker monitoring or performance incentives \u2013 and provide the basis for additional, cost-effective policies for better public health.Arman Rezaee is a PhD candidate at the University of California San Diego and Michael Callen is an assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School. Follow @arezaee and @EPoDHarvard on Twitter. Read more stories like this:\u2022 The toughest job in Nigerian healthcare\u2022 Task shifting explained: a viable solution to health worker shortage?\u2022 Power to the people: how open data is improving health service deliveryJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global health innovation - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Technology", "Research", "Pakistan", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Psychology", "Science", "Hospitals", "Doctors"], "title": "How can personality tests improve the health service in Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-08-29T16:31:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A kiss is just a kiss \u2013 unless it is in the colourful world of Bollywood and it takes place between Pakistan's highest paid female actor and an up and coming Indian screen star.A scene in a new film, Raja Natwarlal, starring Pakistan's sweetheart Humaima Malick and actor Emraan Hashmi has caused a huge row in Malick's homeland \u2013 and is expected to be cut from the film before it is released there.Raja Natwarlal, realised in the UK on Friday, is typical Bollywood fare, in which Malick plays a dancer in a bar who falls in love with a conman seeking to avenge the death of his partner in crime. The \"love\" scene is steamier than usual and there's no doubt the film has benefited from all the column inches this has generated.Kissing scenes have only been a recent phenomenon in Bollywood after the relaxation of strict censorship rules. Prior to that, stars were restricted to conveying passion through stares and the implied raunchiness of dance routines. However, in Pakistan there is still a huge stigma attached and many people have accused Malick of selling out her Pakistani heritage.In reply, she said the backlash was largely due to the fact that she was kissing an Indian man.\"Films in India do\u00a0show intimacy through an occasional full lipped kiss\u00a0and I\u00a0was very reluctant to share a kiss with my co-star,\" she said. \"But the director explained how it doesn't cross the line\u00a0between romance and sleaze. I had\u00a0to trust\u00a0my director's sensibilities.\"I did face some backlash and mostly it was because 'our' woman was involved in a kissing scene and it was considered worse because it was with a guy who was not Pakistani.\"She added that women were judged more harshly than men. \"Local media and society has an obvious\u00a0bias towards male actors and men in general and the morality standards are different for women.\u00a0Sexism occurs all over the world, not just in Pakistan. \u00a0\"People have to understand I am playing a role. Having said that, I think people are less worked up by the scene than they would have been five or 10 years ago. The new generation have grown up with Hollywood and Bollywood films. Put it this way, I haven't had any death threats yet. \"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Bollywood", "World news", "Film", "India", "Culture"], "title": "Humaima Malick's cross-border Bollywood kiss sparks row in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-08-17T13:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistan opposition leader Imran Khan has warned the country's government that thousands of his supporters will storm Pakistan's parliament and other sensitive buildings if his demand for its immediate resignation was not met.The threat, issued during a late night rally in Islamabad on Saturday, raises the stakes of his so-called \"freedom march\" against alleged electoral fraud that has been marred by a disappointing turnout and monsoon rainfall.The government has vowed to protect buildings inside the city's \"red zone\" and says 30,000 security force members are on hand to keep protesters out from the area, already barricaded with shipping containers.Late on Sunday, thousands of supporters of Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party began moving towards a large stack of containers on a major avenue leading to the red zone. Television pictures showed riot police gathering on the other side.Analysts say a violent confrontation with authorities could be the only way to save his much-heralded protest, which some have already written off as a flop.Khan set off from the city of Lahore on Thursday for a slow drive to the capital, where it was hoped a massive sit-in would force the resignation of prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, and force fresh elections. But he has failed to attract anything like the million supporters he claimed would attend and other leading political parties have so far refused to offer their support.Serious unrest in the capital may force an intervention by Pakistan's powerful military \u2013 the only conceivable way many commentators believe Sharif could be ousted given the prime minister's huge parliamentary majority.\"I'm controlling the anger of my workers,\" Khan warned, citing the example of the 2011 protests in Tahrir Square that toppled the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak. \"But I will not able to control it for long.\"A parallel protest has been ongoing a few blocks away led by Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri, a cleric who despite being based in Canada commands a devoted following among Barelvi Muslims who watch his regular television broadcasts and his support his charitable foundation.Qadri has dismissed Khan's calls for fresh elections, arguing Pakistan's democracy is so compromised by corrupt politicians that the country should be ruled by a \"national government\" of technocrats.Despite the presence of the two charismatic leaders the crowds have been far smaller than expected. Most estimates suggest the number of people peaked at about 50,000, with Qadri attracting considerably more.Hostile quarters of the media have highlighted the fact that Khan slipped off to rest at his nearby hilltop mansion on Friday, despite promises he would remain on the streets among his supporters. He did manage a few hours under the stars the following night however.Also sparking media outrage was footage of the PTI's most powerful elected official, Pervaiz Khattak, the chief minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, dancing at the rally on Saturday night. Critics said he should have been at work overseeing relief efforts in his province, which has been hit by monsoon floods that have killed at least 18 people.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Imran Khan"], "title": "Imran Khan warns Pakistan ministers his supporters could storm parliament"},{"date": "2014-08-19T22:25:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters swarmed towards Pakistan's parliament late on Tuesday night after using bolt cutters and cranes to swiftly remove barricades designed to keep them away from the most sensitive areas of the country's capital city.An estimated 50,000 protesters, led by an opposition politician and a Canada-based cleric, had been holding demonstrations in Islamabad for five days to demand the resignation of the government led by prime minister Nawaz Sharif.But until Tuesday they had held back on threats to move on Islamabad's \"red zone\" which houses parliament, the prime minister's office and most foreign embassies.Such a move risked sparking a violent confrontation with police and the army, which in an unusual move had in recent weeks been called in to buttress security in the capital, with about 700 personnel posted inside the red zone.The challenge from the protesters puts Sharif in a difficult position. Major bloodshed defending the red zone could create the conditions for intervention by the country's powerful army, which has a long record of sacking civilian governments throughout Pakistan's turbulent history.At the risk of looking weak, Sharif opted to allow the demonstrators to move into the heart of the capital.No attempt was made to block the progress of marchers by police, many of whom were armed with nothing more than sticks.Protesters were even able to drive cranes into the capital to remove stacks of sea containers placed on key roads leading to the red zone.In a tweet, his daughter Maryam Sharif said the prime minister had ordered police \"not to use any kind of force against the protesters\" in order to protect the many women and children among them.Imran Khan, one of the leaders of the demonstrations, deliberately put women and children at the head of the marchers, while he was conveyed with senior party members on the roof of a specially converted sea container.Despite repeatedly claiming in a speech earlier in the evening that he would lead a peaceful demonstration, many of his supporters carried sticks and were prepared for tear gas with goggles.Khan, the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, is demanding the resignation of Sharif's government which he claims won a landslide victory in last year's general election on the basis of massive electoral fraud, although his allegations have not been supported by independent observers.He has promised to turn the area in front of Pakistan's national assembly building into a \"Tahrir Square\", referring to the 2011 protests in Cairo that ousted president Hosni Mubarak.On Monday he also announced the 34 members of his party who won seats will quit parliament.He has joined forces with Tahir-ul-Qadri, a Barelvi cleric with a considerable support base, who also wants to see the resignation of the government.Unlike Khan, Qadri does not want fresh elections but the establishment of a \"national government\" of technocrats.The protests in the capital have already gone on for five days. The prospect of the standoff continuing outside the nation's parliament could see the army playing an arbitration role.Late on Tuesday army spokesman General Asim Bajwa tweeted an appeal for \"patience, wisdom [and] sagacity from all stakeholders through larger national and public interest\".Over the last year Sharif has been weakened by damaging disputes with the powerful military establishment which removed him from power in the 1999 coup led by Pervez Musharraf.Despite an outright parliamentary majority, the ongoing political crisis is likely to weaken him further and could make him reliant on the army for his political survival.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "World news"], "title": "Protesters march on Pakistan parliament 'red zone'"},{"date": "2014-09-16T14:52:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Fury with a \"VIP culture\" that routinely sees commercial flights in Pakistan delayed to accommodate the schedule of politicians boiled over this week when passengers angrily prevented the country's former interior minister from boarding an aircraft.Fuming travellers had been waiting in their seats when Rehman Malik, one of the country's most recognisable politicians, sauntered down the air bridge to the Pakistan International Airlines jet more than 90 minutes after its scheduled departure from Karachi to Islamabad on Monday.Malik promptly turned tail when a furious group of travellers waiting by the door to the aircraft began heckling, with some chasing him back to the terminal building shouting and calling him a \"stupid dog\".\"Rehman Malik sahib, 250 passengers had to suffer because of you!\" One man could be heard shouting. \"You are not a minister any more and even if you were a minister we don't care, we don't care any more!\"Video of the event captured on passengers' phones went viral in a country where politicians are widely regarded as corrupt and deeply resented for the disruptions to daily life that they cause.That includes traffic jams created by the security convoys of ministers and the habit of turning up to political rallies many hours after the crowds who come to see them.One Facebook page hosting the video said the incident demonstrated the growing clout of Pakistan's middle class over traditional elites.\"The common man starts believing that respect is not about how much money you have or about the position that you hold,\" said Faheem Azam, an arts personality. \"When they understand that respect has to be earned by being fair, humble, honest, committed and sometimes by just being respectful towards others.\"While the former minister fled back to the safety of the airport, another government party politician called Ramesh Kumar Wakwani managed to board the plane only to be vigorously interrogated by suspicious passengers who demanded to know who he was.Initially he described himself merely as a \"doctor\" before eventually admitting to being an elected member of Pakistan's national assembly.That prompted jeers that he was behaving like a feudal lord and demands for him to leave the plane. Amid cries of \"shame\" he eventually surrendered his prized extra legroom seat in the front row of the economy class cabin.Malik defended himself on Twitter, saying he had not been responsible for the delay, which the state-owned national carrier said was due to technical reasons.\"I suffered equally,\" he said on Twitter \u2013 although unlike the other passengers he was allowed to wait in the comfort of the lounge.The stalwart of the opposition Pakistan People's party is one of the country's most colourful politicians, famous for his purple rinse hairstyle, odd pronouncements and for dashing to the scenes of the regular terrorist attacks that blighted his time as interior minister.Widely regarded as a buffoon, he compared himself to Winston Churchill, Peter Mandelson and David Miliband in an interview last year.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Airline industry", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Passenger rage forces Pakistan politician who delayed flight to flee"},{"date": "2014-09-10T08:25:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A more plot-heavy trailer for the fourth season of Homeland has been released, detailing where the political thriller is going next, following the loss of key character Nicholas Brody (Damian Lewis) in Iran at the end of a patchy season three. With showrunner Alex Gansa promising a \u201creset\u201d, the action has moved to Pakistan. A drone strike has hit what appears to be a children\u2019s party, and with a video of the attack being leaked online, the US government - in the form of slippery Senator Lockhart - is forced to defend its actions.Carrie is back in the field, where she is joined by Saul (so what happened to that private contractor gig he landed at the end of the third run?). She appears to be simultaneously struggling with motherhood, perhaps because they have managed to cast a baby who looks almost terrifyingly like its on-screen father.Much of Homeland\u2019s initial strength came from its ability to negotiate murky moral waters, and though it may be premature to predict a return to season one form, the new trailer does offer a little hope that the show may find its feet again. Plus - no Dana Brody!Homeland returns with a double-bill in the US on 5 October on Showtime, and will be on Channel 4 later this year.", "tags": ["Homeland", "Television", "Television & radio", "Drama", "Culture", "US television", "Damian Lewis"], "title": "Homeland season four trailer: drone strikes, Pakistan and baby Brody"},{"date": "2014-09-09T10:00:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Staff absenteeism at health centres across Africa and South Asia is notoriously high. Our baseline measurement at clinics in rural Punjab, Pakistan found doctors to be absent 58% of the time. As so often is the case with service delivery in developing countries \u2013 and with economic development in general \u2013 links along the chain are opportunities for the process to break down. All of these links depend on humans. We wondered if measurable personality traits affect how public servants perform, and how understanding this relationship might help improve service delivery.Several studies, in particular those led by Nobel laureate James Heckman, have shown that five personality traits \u2013 openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness and neuroticism \u2013 are robust predictors of behaviour. Another study shows that the personality types who take a government job changes depending on the wage. Motivated by their methodology, we decided to test if the five personality traits \u2013 along with a sixth, public sector motivation \u2013 affect how public servants perform.We applied personality tests to three tiers of public servants (doctors, inspectors and senior officials) across the 36 districts of Punjab. Notably, the senior officials are responsible for public healthcare affecting millions of people. In random districts, we replaced the paper-based system with smartphones that fed attendance data straight up the chain. We conducted unannounced visits to health facilities and developed a way of measuring collusion between inspectors and clinic doctors. Finally, we created an index of traits that could be desirable in a civil servant, such as emotional stability, conscientiousness and agreeableness.Three major results emerged from the experiment. First, a high score on our index predicts that doctors will show up to work and negatively predicts that they will collude with inspectors to falsify reports. Second, smartphone monitoring has the largest impact on inspectors who have a high index score. Third, senior health officials with high index scores are more likely than others to respond to a report of an underperforming clinic. All of these effects are large and statistically significant.In short, our study suggests that strategically placing officials who show the right combination of personality traits, and combining this placement with smart policies, can greatly improve outcomes for the public, at a relatively low cost.But if such results are replicated in a variety of contexts and turned into policy, will we end up in a brave new world where people are tested and directed to the positions deemed desirable? We think not. To understand why, it is important to take a step back.Despite how we tend to see our own personalities, traits are not static. For one thing, they change over our lifetimes. Psychologist Brent Roberts has shown that the trait conscientiousness takes gradual steps up throughout the lifetime \u2013 including a considerable jump between 45 and 55. Secondly, there is evidence that certain traits can be manipulated. James Heckman and coauthors showed this using long-range data from the Perry Preschool Programme that gave added emotional and social support to disadvantaged children. Heckman\u2019s recent study shows that treatment children, now in their 40s, show greater success on a variety of socioeconomic measures \u2013 evidence that altered personality traits made the difference.Whether traits can be manipulated once individuals mature, however, remains an open question. Experiments could determine if training programmes can be used to alter civil servant traits in a beneficial way. More broadly, adding social supports early in life could have benefits for individuals and societies down the road.Guiding people into certain positions at certain ages may have benefits too. Based on estimates from our study, if the government of Punjab (population 100 million) replaced the bottom 25% of doctors with average doctors in terms of conscientiousness, for example, 9,500 more patients would be seen every month. While the estimates underlying this are admittedly rough, and while we are not advocating firing any doctors, it suggests that taking personality measurement seriously could open new doors that would greatly improve the provision of services.To return to the short term, however, our study may have a more practical use for development practitioners. Generally, practitioners and researchers tend to focus on reforms that strengthen incentives. Our findings give us confidence that changing the composition of the workforce by attracting better people, promoting better people, and/or better tailoring their individual incentives can improve health service delivery.Our study gives a sense of how things get accomplished in settings where existing incentive schemes should lead to nothing getting done. In our setting, there is little chance of being fired for being absent, yet doctors are still present 42% of the time. This is a depressingly low number, but it is not zero as would be predicted considering only the incentives. After all, why would one go to work when they do not need to do so to get paid?Given these realities, new policies and new information can be intelligently targeted at civil servants who are identified by personality tests as more intrinsically motivated. Such policies might provide useful complements to more traditional strategies \u2013 such as increasing worker monitoring or performance incentives \u2013 and provide the basis for additional, cost-effective policies for better public health.Arman Rezaee is a PhD candidate at the University of California San Diego and Michael Callen is an assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School. Follow @arezaee and @EPoDHarvard on Twitter. Read more stories like this:\u2022 The toughest job in Nigerian healthcare\u2022 Task shifting explained: a viable solution to health worker shortage?\u2022 Power to the people: how open data is improving health service deliveryJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global health innovation - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Technology", "Research", "Pakistan", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Psychology", "Science", "Hospitals", "Doctors"], "title": "How can personality tests improve the health service in Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-08-29T16:31:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A kiss is just a kiss \u2013 unless it is in the colourful world of Bollywood and it takes place between Pakistan's highest paid female actor and an up and coming Indian screen star.A scene in a new film, Raja Natwarlal, starring Pakistan's sweetheart Humaima Malick and actor Emraan Hashmi has caused a huge row in Malick's homeland \u2013 and is expected to be cut from the film before it is released there.Raja Natwarlal, realised in the UK on Friday, is typical Bollywood fare, in which Malick plays a dancer in a bar who falls in love with a conman seeking to avenge the death of his partner in crime. The \"love\" scene is steamier than usual and there's no doubt the film has benefited from all the column inches this has generated.Kissing scenes have only been a recent phenomenon in Bollywood after the relaxation of strict censorship rules. Prior to that, stars were restricted to conveying passion through stares and the implied raunchiness of dance routines. However, in Pakistan there is still a huge stigma attached and many people have accused Malick of selling out her Pakistani heritage.In reply, she said the backlash was largely due to the fact that she was kissing an Indian man.\"Films in India do\u00a0show intimacy through an occasional full lipped kiss\u00a0and I\u00a0was very reluctant to share a kiss with my co-star,\" she said. \"But the director explained how it doesn't cross the line\u00a0between romance and sleaze. I had\u00a0to trust\u00a0my director's sensibilities.\"I did face some backlash and mostly it was because 'our' woman was involved in a kissing scene and it was considered worse because it was with a guy who was not Pakistani.\"She added that women were judged more harshly than men. \"Local media and society has an obvious\u00a0bias towards male actors and men in general and the morality standards are different for women.\u00a0Sexism occurs all over the world, not just in Pakistan. \u00a0\"People have to understand I am playing a role. Having said that, I think people are less worked up by the scene than they would have been five or 10 years ago. The new generation have grown up with Hollywood and Bollywood films. Put it this way, I haven't had any death threats yet. \"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Bollywood", "World news", "Film", "India", "Culture"], "title": "Humaima Malick's cross-border Bollywood kiss sparks row in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-08-17T13:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistan opposition leader Imran Khan has warned the country's government that thousands of his supporters will storm Pakistan's parliament and other sensitive buildings if his demand for its immediate resignation was not met.The threat, issued during a late night rally in Islamabad on Saturday, raises the stakes of his so-called \"freedom march\" against alleged electoral fraud that has been marred by a disappointing turnout and monsoon rainfall.The government has vowed to protect buildings inside the city's \"red zone\" and says 30,000 security force members are on hand to keep protesters out from the area, already barricaded with shipping containers.Late on Sunday, thousands of supporters of Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party began moving towards a large stack of containers on a major avenue leading to the red zone. Television pictures showed riot police gathering on the other side.Analysts say a violent confrontation with authorities could be the only way to save his much-heralded protest, which some have already written off as a flop.Khan set off from the city of Lahore on Thursday for a slow drive to the capital, where it was hoped a massive sit-in would force the resignation of prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, and force fresh elections. But he has failed to attract anything like the million supporters he claimed would attend and other leading political parties have so far refused to offer their support.Serious unrest in the capital may force an intervention by Pakistan's powerful military \u2013 the only conceivable way many commentators believe Sharif could be ousted given the prime minister's huge parliamentary majority.\"I'm controlling the anger of my workers,\" Khan warned, citing the example of the 2011 protests in Tahrir Square that toppled the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak. \"But I will not able to control it for long.\"A parallel protest has been ongoing a few blocks away led by Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri, a cleric who despite being based in Canada commands a devoted following among Barelvi Muslims who watch his regular television broadcasts and his support his charitable foundation.Qadri has dismissed Khan's calls for fresh elections, arguing Pakistan's democracy is so compromised by corrupt politicians that the country should be ruled by a \"national government\" of technocrats.Despite the presence of the two charismatic leaders the crowds have been far smaller than expected. Most estimates suggest the number of people peaked at about 50,000, with Qadri attracting considerably more.Hostile quarters of the media have highlighted the fact that Khan slipped off to rest at his nearby hilltop mansion on Friday, despite promises he would remain on the streets among his supporters. He did manage a few hours under the stars the following night however.Also sparking media outrage was footage of the PTI's most powerful elected official, Pervaiz Khattak, the chief minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, dancing at the rally on Saturday night. Critics said he should have been at work overseeing relief efforts in his province, which has been hit by monsoon floods that have killed at least 18 people.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Imran Khan"], "title": "Imran Khan warns Pakistan ministers his supporters could storm parliament"},{"date": "2014-08-10T15:48:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is bracing itself for huge street protests in the capital, Islamabad, this week amid political crisis that has resulted in cities' petrol supplies being cut, clashes between police and the followers of a controversial cleric in Lahore, and demands by politician and former cricketer Imran Khan for the government to quit.The chaos and political uncertainly comes a little more than a year after a landslide election victory swept Nawaz Sharif, a conservative businessman, to power for the third time. Sharif's thumping parliamentary majority led to a rare outbreak of optimism among Pakistan watchers who dared to hope the new prime minister had the mandate to achieve his aims of reviving a broken economy, making peace with India and tackling Islamist militancy.But in the 14 months since he took office, Sharif's authority has been undermined by Pakistan's powerful military, Canada-based cleric Tahir-ul-Qadri and Khan \u2013 a demagogue politician who claims Sharif's faction of the Pakistan Muslim League (PML-N) rigged the election.Khan has vowed to bring Islamabad to a standstill on Thursday, the county's independence day, when huge numbers of his supporters will flood into the capital. He has vowed that they will remain until the government steps down and fresh elections are called.Khan's behaviour has baffled many analysts and diplomats who are not convinced the election was so flawed that Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party was illegitimately denied victory. Most international observers judged the 2013 polls to have been considerably better than previous general elections.\"We didn't reject the election results immediately because we thought we could get relief from the courts,\" said senior PTI leader Shafqat Mahmood. \"But now we have decided that everything we tried in parliament and the courts has not worked and so we have no recourse but to launch a huge protest.\"Sceptical observers point out that Khan has no way to legally achieve his aims given the government has a huge majority in parliament and is unlikely to vote itself out of existence. Nonetheless, the prospect of Khan's \"Freedom March\" (in reality, a motorised drive) from Lahore to Islamabad on Thursday, has seriously alarmed the government. Drastic steps have been taken to try to block the protest, including declaring a ban on gatherings of more than four people and giving the army responsibility for guarding Islamabad.Other methods include the impounding of motorbikes and buses and the closure of petrol stations. The motorway linking Islamabad to Lahore is likely to be shut down. Critics say the government has mishandled the situation and should have allowed demonstrations to peter out during the sweltering monsoon conditions.The government fears the presence of tens of thousands protesters in the capital could trigger violent confrontations creating an opening for an intervention by the army, which has seized power at several points in Pakistan's history.Addressing the press on Friday at his luxurious hilltop estate overlooking the capital, Khan said his supporters had the right to resist any attempts by the police or the army to enforce the ban on protests in the capital. \"The police are not Pakistan's police but Nawaz Sharif's private henchmen,\" he said. \"If they try to stop peaceful protest then there is going to be violence.\"Sharif's power has been challenged in the prime minister's home city of Lahore, the capital of Punjab province. Violent supporters of Qadri have been fighting against police in cities across Punjab.Qadri enjoys the support of huge numbers of committed activists through his political party, the Pakistan Awami Tehreek (PAT) and his religious organisation, the Minhaj-ul-Quran. He has long called for revolution, claiming Pakistan's democratic structure is mired in corruption and must be swept away. In recent days his supporters have clashed with police near his office in an upmarket neighbourhood of Lahore where the city's authorities had attempted to stop activists commemorating the killing in June of 14 party workers during an earlier standoff with police.Qadri has promised his \"Green Revolution\" will see the immediate incarceration of government ministers and the introduction of a \"10-point revolutionary agenda\".Based for much of the time in Canada, he flew into Pakistan in June, when the government diverted his commercial flight to Lahore to prevent him landing in Islamabad where his supporters were waiting for him. On Sunday Qadri announced he would also lead a \"Revolution March\" of his supporters on Islamabad, although the PTI and PAT have not formally joined their efforts.On Sunday the police charged Qadri with murder, incitement to violence and treason after the death of a police constable who was wounded in confrontations in Lahore on Friday.", "tags": ["Imran Khan", "Pakistan", "Protest", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan protests: Islamabad prepares for anti-government demonstration"},{"date": "2014-08-19T22:25:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters swarmed towards Pakistan's parliament late on Tuesday night after using bolt cutters and cranes to swiftly remove barricades designed to keep them away from the most sensitive areas of the country's capital city.An estimated 50,000 protesters, led by an opposition politician and a Canada-based cleric, had been holding demonstrations in Islamabad for five days to demand the resignation of the government led by prime minister Nawaz Sharif.But until Tuesday they had held back on threats to move on Islamabad's \"red zone\" which houses parliament, the prime minister's office and most foreign embassies.Such a move risked sparking a violent confrontation with police and the army, which in an unusual move had in recent weeks been called in to buttress security in the capital, with about 700 personnel posted inside the red zone.The challenge from the protesters puts Sharif in a difficult position. Major bloodshed defending the red zone could create the conditions for intervention by the country's powerful army, which has a long record of sacking civilian governments throughout Pakistan's turbulent history.At the risk of looking weak, Sharif opted to allow the demonstrators to move into the heart of the capital.No attempt was made to block the progress of marchers by police, many of whom were armed with nothing more than sticks.Protesters were even able to drive cranes into the capital to remove stacks of sea containers placed on key roads leading to the red zone.In a tweet, his daughter Maryam Sharif said the prime minister had ordered police \"not to use any kind of force against the protesters\" in order to protect the many women and children among them.Imran Khan, one of the leaders of the demonstrations, deliberately put women and children at the head of the marchers, while he was conveyed with senior party members on the roof of a specially converted sea container.Despite repeatedly claiming in a speech earlier in the evening that he would lead a peaceful demonstration, many of his supporters carried sticks and were prepared for tear gas with goggles.Khan, the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, is demanding the resignation of Sharif's government which he claims won a landslide victory in last year's general election on the basis of massive electoral fraud, although his allegations have not been supported by independent observers.He has promised to turn the area in front of Pakistan's national assembly building into a \"Tahrir Square\", referring to the 2011 protests in Cairo that ousted president Hosni Mubarak.On Monday he also announced the 34 members of his party who won seats will quit parliament.He has joined forces with Tahir-ul-Qadri, a Barelvi cleric with a considerable support base, who also wants to see the resignation of the government.Unlike Khan, Qadri does not want fresh elections but the establishment of a \"national government\" of technocrats.The protests in the capital have already gone on for five days. The prospect of the standoff continuing outside the nation's parliament could see the army playing an arbitration role.Late on Tuesday army spokesman General Asim Bajwa tweeted an appeal for \"patience, wisdom [and] sagacity from all stakeholders through larger national and public interest\".Over the last year Sharif has been weakened by damaging disputes with the powerful military establishment which removed him from power in the 1999 coup led by Pervez Musharraf.Despite an outright parliamentary majority, the ongoing political crisis is likely to weaken him further and could make him reliant on the army for his political survival.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "World news"], "title": "Protesters march on Pakistan parliament 'red zone'"},{"date": "2014-09-16T14:52:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Fury with a \"VIP culture\" that routinely sees commercial flights in Pakistan delayed to accommodate the schedule of politicians boiled over this week when passengers angrily prevented the country's former interior minister from boarding an aircraft.Fuming travellers had been waiting in their seats when Rehman Malik, one of the country's most recognisable politicians, sauntered down the air bridge to the Pakistan International Airlines jet more than 90 minutes after its scheduled departure from Karachi to Islamabad on Monday.Malik promptly turned tail when a furious group of travellers waiting by the door to the aircraft began heckling, with some chasing him back to the terminal building shouting and calling him a \"stupid dog\".\"Rehman Malik sahib, 250 passengers had to suffer because of you!\" One man could be heard shouting. \"You are not a minister any more and even if you were a minister we don't care, we don't care any more!\"Video of the event captured on passengers' phones went viral in a country where politicians are widely regarded as corrupt and deeply resented for the disruptions to daily life that they cause.That includes traffic jams created by the security convoys of ministers and the habit of turning up to political rallies many hours after the crowds who come to see them.One Facebook page hosting the video said the incident demonstrated the growing clout of Pakistan's middle class over traditional elites.\"The common man starts believing that respect is not about how much money you have or about the position that you hold,\" said Faheem Azam, an arts personality. \"When they understand that respect has to be earned by being fair, humble, honest, committed and sometimes by just being respectful towards others.\"While the former minister fled back to the safety of the airport, another government party politician called Ramesh Kumar Wakwani managed to board the plane only to be vigorously interrogated by suspicious passengers who demanded to know who he was.Initially he described himself merely as a \"doctor\" before eventually admitting to being an elected member of Pakistan's national assembly.That prompted jeers that he was behaving like a feudal lord and demands for him to leave the plane. Amid cries of \"shame\" he eventually surrendered his prized extra legroom seat in the front row of the economy class cabin.Malik defended himself on Twitter, saying he had not been responsible for the delay, which the state-owned national carrier said was due to technical reasons.\"I suffered equally,\" he said on Twitter \u2013 although unlike the other passengers he was allowed to wait in the comfort of the lounge.The stalwart of the opposition Pakistan People's party is one of the country's most colourful politicians, famous for his purple rinse hairstyle, odd pronouncements and for dashing to the scenes of the regular terrorist attacks that blighted his time as interior minister.Widely regarded as a buffoon, he compared himself to Winston Churchill, Peter Mandelson and David Miliband in an interview last year.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Airline industry", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Passenger rage forces Pakistan politician who delayed flight to flee"},{"date": "2014-09-10T08:25:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A more plot-heavy trailer for the fourth season of Homeland has been released, detailing where the political thriller is going next, following the loss of key character Nicholas Brody (Damian Lewis) in Iran at the end of a patchy season three. With showrunner Alex Gansa promising a \u201creset\u201d, the action has moved to Pakistan. A drone strike has hit what appears to be a children\u2019s party, and with a video of the attack being leaked online, the US government - in the form of slippery Senator Lockhart - is forced to defend its actions.Carrie is back in the field, where she is joined by Saul (so what happened to that private contractor gig he landed at the end of the third run?). She appears to be simultaneously struggling with motherhood, perhaps because they have managed to cast a baby who looks almost terrifyingly like its on-screen father.Much of Homeland\u2019s initial strength came from its ability to negotiate murky moral waters, and though it may be premature to predict a return to season one form, the new trailer does offer a little hope that the show may find its feet again. Plus - no Dana Brody!Homeland returns with a double-bill in the US on 5 October on Showtime, and will be on Channel 4 later this year.", "tags": ["Homeland", "Television", "Television & radio", "Drama", "Culture", "US television", "Damian Lewis"], "title": "Homeland season four trailer: drone strikes, Pakistan and baby Brody"},{"date": "2014-09-09T10:00:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Staff absenteeism at health centres across Africa and South Asia is notoriously high. Our baseline measurement at clinics in rural Punjab, Pakistan found doctors to be absent 58% of the time. As so often is the case with service delivery in developing countries \u2013 and with economic development in general \u2013 links along the chain are opportunities for the process to break down. All of these links depend on humans. We wondered if measurable personality traits affect how public servants perform, and how understanding this relationship might help improve service delivery.Several studies, in particular those led by Nobel laureate James Heckman, have shown that five personality traits \u2013 openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness and neuroticism \u2013 are robust predictors of behaviour. Another study shows that the personality types who take a government job changes depending on the wage. Motivated by their methodology, we decided to test if the five personality traits \u2013 along with a sixth, public sector motivation \u2013 affect how public servants perform.We applied personality tests to three tiers of public servants (doctors, inspectors and senior officials) across the 36 districts of Punjab. Notably, the senior officials are responsible for public healthcare affecting millions of people. In random districts, we replaced the paper-based system with smartphones that fed attendance data straight up the chain. We conducted unannounced visits to health facilities and developed a way of measuring collusion between inspectors and clinic doctors. Finally, we created an index of traits that could be desirable in a civil servant, such as emotional stability, conscientiousness and agreeableness.Three major results emerged from the experiment. First, a high score on our index predicts that doctors will show up to work and negatively predicts that they will collude with inspectors to falsify reports. Second, smartphone monitoring has the largest impact on inspectors who have a high index score. Third, senior health officials with high index scores are more likely than others to respond to a report of an underperforming clinic. All of these effects are large and statistically significant.In short, our study suggests that strategically placing officials who show the right combination of personality traits, and combining this placement with smart policies, can greatly improve outcomes for the public, at a relatively low cost.But if such results are replicated in a variety of contexts and turned into policy, will we end up in a brave new world where people are tested and directed to the positions deemed desirable? We think not. To understand why, it is important to take a step back.Despite how we tend to see our own personalities, traits are not static. For one thing, they change over our lifetimes. Psychologist Brent Roberts has shown that the trait conscientiousness takes gradual steps up throughout the lifetime \u2013 including a considerable jump between 45 and 55. Secondly, there is evidence that certain traits can be manipulated. James Heckman and coauthors showed this using long-range data from the Perry Preschool Programme that gave added emotional and social support to disadvantaged children. Heckman\u2019s recent study shows that treatment children, now in their 40s, show greater success on a variety of socioeconomic measures \u2013 evidence that altered personality traits made the difference.Whether traits can be manipulated once individuals mature, however, remains an open question. Experiments could determine if training programmes can be used to alter civil servant traits in a beneficial way. More broadly, adding social supports early in life could have benefits for individuals and societies down the road.Guiding people into certain positions at certain ages may have benefits too. Based on estimates from our study, if the government of Punjab (population 100 million) replaced the bottom 25% of doctors with average doctors in terms of conscientiousness, for example, 9,500 more patients would be seen every month. While the estimates underlying this are admittedly rough, and while we are not advocating firing any doctors, it suggests that taking personality measurement seriously could open new doors that would greatly improve the provision of services.To return to the short term, however, our study may have a more practical use for development practitioners. Generally, practitioners and researchers tend to focus on reforms that strengthen incentives. Our findings give us confidence that changing the composition of the workforce by attracting better people, promoting better people, and/or better tailoring their individual incentives can improve health service delivery.Our study gives a sense of how things get accomplished in settings where existing incentive schemes should lead to nothing getting done. In our setting, there is little chance of being fired for being absent, yet doctors are still present 42% of the time. This is a depressingly low number, but it is not zero as would be predicted considering only the incentives. After all, why would one go to work when they do not need to do so to get paid?Given these realities, new policies and new information can be intelligently targeted at civil servants who are identified by personality tests as more intrinsically motivated. Such policies might provide useful complements to more traditional strategies \u2013 such as increasing worker monitoring or performance incentives \u2013 and provide the basis for additional, cost-effective policies for better public health.Arman Rezaee is a PhD candidate at the University of California San Diego and Michael Callen is an assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School. Follow @arezaee and @EPoDHarvard on Twitter. Read more stories like this:\u2022 The toughest job in Nigerian healthcare\u2022 Task shifting explained: a viable solution to health worker shortage?\u2022 Power to the people: how open data is improving health service deliveryJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global health innovation - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Technology", "Research", "Pakistan", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Psychology", "Science", "Hospitals", "Doctors"], "title": "How can personality tests improve the health service in Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-08-29T16:31:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A kiss is just a kiss \u2013 unless it is in the colourful world of Bollywood and it takes place between Pakistan's highest paid female actor and an up and coming Indian screen star.A scene in a new film, Raja Natwarlal, starring Pakistan's sweetheart Humaima Malick and actor Emraan Hashmi has caused a huge row in Malick's homeland \u2013 and is expected to be cut from the film before it is released there.Raja Natwarlal, realised in the UK on Friday, is typical Bollywood fare, in which Malick plays a dancer in a bar who falls in love with a conman seeking to avenge the death of his partner in crime. The \"love\" scene is steamier than usual and there's no doubt the film has benefited from all the column inches this has generated.Kissing scenes have only been a recent phenomenon in Bollywood after the relaxation of strict censorship rules. Prior to that, stars were restricted to conveying passion through stares and the implied raunchiness of dance routines. However, in Pakistan there is still a huge stigma attached and many people have accused Malick of selling out her Pakistani heritage.In reply, she said the backlash was largely due to the fact that she was kissing an Indian man.\"Films in India do\u00a0show intimacy through an occasional full lipped kiss\u00a0and I\u00a0was very reluctant to share a kiss with my co-star,\" she said. \"But the director explained how it doesn't cross the line\u00a0between romance and sleaze. I had\u00a0to trust\u00a0my director's sensibilities.\"I did face some backlash and mostly it was because 'our' woman was involved in a kissing scene and it was considered worse because it was with a guy who was not Pakistani.\"She added that women were judged more harshly than men. \"Local media and society has an obvious\u00a0bias towards male actors and men in general and the morality standards are different for women.\u00a0Sexism occurs all over the world, not just in Pakistan. \u00a0\"People have to understand I am playing a role. Having said that, I think people are less worked up by the scene than they would have been five or 10 years ago. The new generation have grown up with Hollywood and Bollywood films. Put it this way, I haven't had any death threats yet. \"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Bollywood", "World news", "Film", "India", "Culture"], "title": "Humaima Malick's cross-border Bollywood kiss sparks row in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-08-17T13:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistan opposition leader Imran Khan has warned the country's government that thousands of his supporters will storm Pakistan's parliament and other sensitive buildings if his demand for its immediate resignation was not met.The threat, issued during a late night rally in Islamabad on Saturday, raises the stakes of his so-called \"freedom march\" against alleged electoral fraud that has been marred by a disappointing turnout and monsoon rainfall.The government has vowed to protect buildings inside the city's \"red zone\" and says 30,000 security force members are on hand to keep protesters out from the area, already barricaded with shipping containers.Late on Sunday, thousands of supporters of Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party began moving towards a large stack of containers on a major avenue leading to the red zone. Television pictures showed riot police gathering on the other side.Analysts say a violent confrontation with authorities could be the only way to save his much-heralded protest, which some have already written off as a flop.Khan set off from the city of Lahore on Thursday for a slow drive to the capital, where it was hoped a massive sit-in would force the resignation of prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, and force fresh elections. But he has failed to attract anything like the million supporters he claimed would attend and other leading political parties have so far refused to offer their support.Serious unrest in the capital may force an intervention by Pakistan's powerful military \u2013 the only conceivable way many commentators believe Sharif could be ousted given the prime minister's huge parliamentary majority.\"I'm controlling the anger of my workers,\" Khan warned, citing the example of the 2011 protests in Tahrir Square that toppled the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak. \"But I will not able to control it for long.\"A parallel protest has been ongoing a few blocks away led by Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri, a cleric who despite being based in Canada commands a devoted following among Barelvi Muslims who watch his regular television broadcasts and his support his charitable foundation.Qadri has dismissed Khan's calls for fresh elections, arguing Pakistan's democracy is so compromised by corrupt politicians that the country should be ruled by a \"national government\" of technocrats.Despite the presence of the two charismatic leaders the crowds have been far smaller than expected. Most estimates suggest the number of people peaked at about 50,000, with Qadri attracting considerably more.Hostile quarters of the media have highlighted the fact that Khan slipped off to rest at his nearby hilltop mansion on Friday, despite promises he would remain on the streets among his supporters. He did manage a few hours under the stars the following night however.Also sparking media outrage was footage of the PTI's most powerful elected official, Pervaiz Khattak, the chief minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, dancing at the rally on Saturday night. Critics said he should have been at work overseeing relief efforts in his province, which has been hit by monsoon floods that have killed at least 18 people.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Imran Khan"], "title": "Imran Khan warns Pakistan ministers his supporters could storm parliament"},{"date": "2014-08-10T15:48:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is bracing itself for huge street protests in the capital, Islamabad, this week amid political crisis that has resulted in cities' petrol supplies being cut, clashes between police and the followers of a controversial cleric in Lahore, and demands by politician and former cricketer Imran Khan for the government to quit.The chaos and political uncertainly comes a little more than a year after a landslide election victory swept Nawaz Sharif, a conservative businessman, to power for the third time. Sharif's thumping parliamentary majority led to a rare outbreak of optimism among Pakistan watchers who dared to hope the new prime minister had the mandate to achieve his aims of reviving a broken economy, making peace with India and tackling Islamist militancy.But in the 14 months since he took office, Sharif's authority has been undermined by Pakistan's powerful military, Canada-based cleric Tahir-ul-Qadri and Khan \u2013 a demagogue politician who claims Sharif's faction of the Pakistan Muslim League (PML-N) rigged the election.Khan has vowed to bring Islamabad to a standstill on Thursday, the county's independence day, when huge numbers of his supporters will flood into the capital. He has vowed that they will remain until the government steps down and fresh elections are called.Khan's behaviour has baffled many analysts and diplomats who are not convinced the election was so flawed that Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party was illegitimately denied victory. Most international observers judged the 2013 polls to have been considerably better than previous general elections.\"We didn't reject the election results immediately because we thought we could get relief from the courts,\" said senior PTI leader Shafqat Mahmood. \"But now we have decided that everything we tried in parliament and the courts has not worked and so we have no recourse but to launch a huge protest.\"Sceptical observers point out that Khan has no way to legally achieve his aims given the government has a huge majority in parliament and is unlikely to vote itself out of existence. Nonetheless, the prospect of Khan's \"Freedom March\" (in reality, a motorised drive) from Lahore to Islamabad on Thursday, has seriously alarmed the government. Drastic steps have been taken to try to block the protest, including declaring a ban on gatherings of more than four people and giving the army responsibility for guarding Islamabad.Other methods include the impounding of motorbikes and buses and the closure of petrol stations. The motorway linking Islamabad to Lahore is likely to be shut down. Critics say the government has mishandled the situation and should have allowed demonstrations to peter out during the sweltering monsoon conditions.The government fears the presence of tens of thousands protesters in the capital could trigger violent confrontations creating an opening for an intervention by the army, which has seized power at several points in Pakistan's history.Addressing the press on Friday at his luxurious hilltop estate overlooking the capital, Khan said his supporters had the right to resist any attempts by the police or the army to enforce the ban on protests in the capital. \"The police are not Pakistan's police but Nawaz Sharif's private henchmen,\" he said. \"If they try to stop peaceful protest then there is going to be violence.\"Sharif's power has been challenged in the prime minister's home city of Lahore, the capital of Punjab province. Violent supporters of Qadri have been fighting against police in cities across Punjab.Qadri enjoys the support of huge numbers of committed activists through his political party, the Pakistan Awami Tehreek (PAT) and his religious organisation, the Minhaj-ul-Quran. He has long called for revolution, claiming Pakistan's democratic structure is mired in corruption and must be swept away. In recent days his supporters have clashed with police near his office in an upmarket neighbourhood of Lahore where the city's authorities had attempted to stop activists commemorating the killing in June of 14 party workers during an earlier standoff with police.Qadri has promised his \"Green Revolution\" will see the immediate incarceration of government ministers and the introduction of a \"10-point revolutionary agenda\".Based for much of the time in Canada, he flew into Pakistan in June, when the government diverted his commercial flight to Lahore to prevent him landing in Islamabad where his supporters were waiting for him. On Sunday Qadri announced he would also lead a \"Revolution March\" of his supporters on Islamabad, although the PTI and PAT have not formally joined their efforts.On Sunday the police charged Qadri with murder, incitement to violence and treason after the death of a police constable who was wounded in confrontations in Lahore on Friday.", "tags": ["Imran Khan", "Pakistan", "Protest", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan protests: Islamabad prepares for anti-government demonstration"},{"date": "2014-07-17T14:39:25Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Afghan officials have accused Pakistan of letting Afghan militants escape a complex crackdown on insurgent hideouts, after a massive truck bomb killed dozens of civilians in a crowded bazaar earlier this week.The vehicle was packed with explosives across the border and driven into Afghanistan even as the Pakistani military battled to extend their control of North Waziristan beyond the administrative headquarters of Miran Shah, according to a spokesman for Afghanistan's intelligence agency, the National Directorate of Security.\"The Haqqani network was behind this attack,\" Abdul Haseeb Sadique said of the bombing on Tuesday. \"It was planned and designed in Miran Shah. The aim of this attack was to inflict maximum casualties, regardless of whether they were civilians or military.\"The Haqqani network is perhaps the wealthiest and most ruthless of several Taliban-linked groups that operate out of western Pakistan; much of their support comes from their home province, Khost.The Afghan government has long accused its neighbour's intelligence service of supporting insurgents with money, arms, advice and safe havens. Islamabad says the accusations are groundless and it has no control over areas that were ceded long ago to groups fighting their own state.Operation Zarb-e-Azb, a long-delayed effort to seize back the area from militant groups, began on 15 June. It has effectively emptied the area of civilians, with nearly a million fleeing within Pakistan and tens of thousands across the border into Afghanistan, raising worries that insurgents might be lying low among them.The Pakistani army insists that all insurgents will be targeted and says more than 400 have been killed so far, but a senior Afghan intelligence official said he was not aware of any Afghans among the dead or captured.\"Haqqani network has planned and has managed to organise such a large, spectacular intelligence-led operation inside Waziristan \u2026 coordinate the transport to Afghanistan, cross the border, come to the attack area and blow it up,\" the official said.\"It tells us a story that something is wrong, either the operation is a failure or there is an intention that the Haqqanis are not going to be the target.\" The official said he had reports of Haqqani leaders evacuated to safety and small \"safe havens\" set up for lower-level fighters to escape the crackdown.Tuesday's attack was far beyond the capacities of local Taliban, and fits with a pattern of similar assaults and attempted attacks by Haqqani fighters. Authorities have intercepted five truck bombs in the past 16 months, mostly heading for Kabul, and one other reached its target in a province just south of Kabul, killing dozens in an attack on the governor's compound.On 11 June another massive truck bomb was destroyed by a US drone just 20km north of Miran Shah as it was travelling the short distance to the Afghan border, from where insurgents can easily reach major provincial capitals.After just a month of operations, Pakistan does not yet fully control Waziristan, a large and partly mountainous region. However on Wednesday it was reported that leading Pakistani Taliban commander Adnan Rashid had been captured, although officials refused to confirm the arrest.While Pakistan has been accused of colluding with militants vying for power in Kabul, Rashid, a former air force technician, is regarded as an arch member of the \"bad Taliban\" that Islamabad wants to uproot because they target Pakistan.He was the mastermind of a 2003 suicide car bomb plot to kill former president Pervez Musharraf, and escaped from a prison near North Waziristan during a mass jailbreak organised by the Pakistani Taliban in 2012.The Pakistani government has also complained to Afghanistan that it is providing shelter to militants in its own lawless border regions, and requested their eviction. It was a demand that many in Kabul found ironic after years of making similar pleas to no effect in Islamabad.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Afghanistan accuses Pakistan of letting Haqqani militants escape crackdown"},{"date": "2014-08-19T22:25:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters swarmed towards Pakistan's parliament late on Tuesday night after using bolt cutters and cranes to swiftly remove barricades designed to keep them away from the most sensitive areas of the country's capital city.An estimated 50,000 protesters, led by an opposition politician and a Canada-based cleric, had been holding demonstrations in Islamabad for five days to demand the resignation of the government led by prime minister Nawaz Sharif.But until Tuesday they had held back on threats to move on Islamabad's \"red zone\" which houses parliament, the prime minister's office and most foreign embassies.Such a move risked sparking a violent confrontation with police and the army, which in an unusual move had in recent weeks been called in to buttress security in the capital, with about 700 personnel posted inside the red zone.The challenge from the protesters puts Sharif in a difficult position. Major bloodshed defending the red zone could create the conditions for intervention by the country's powerful army, which has a long record of sacking civilian governments throughout Pakistan's turbulent history.At the risk of looking weak, Sharif opted to allow the demonstrators to move into the heart of the capital.No attempt was made to block the progress of marchers by police, many of whom were armed with nothing more than sticks.Protesters were even able to drive cranes into the capital to remove stacks of sea containers placed on key roads leading to the red zone.In a tweet, his daughter Maryam Sharif said the prime minister had ordered police \"not to use any kind of force against the protesters\" in order to protect the many women and children among them.Imran Khan, one of the leaders of the demonstrations, deliberately put women and children at the head of the marchers, while he was conveyed with senior party members on the roof of a specially converted sea container.Despite repeatedly claiming in a speech earlier in the evening that he would lead a peaceful demonstration, many of his supporters carried sticks and were prepared for tear gas with goggles.Khan, the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, is demanding the resignation of Sharif's government which he claims won a landslide victory in last year's general election on the basis of massive electoral fraud, although his allegations have not been supported by independent observers.He has promised to turn the area in front of Pakistan's national assembly building into a \"Tahrir Square\", referring to the 2011 protests in Cairo that ousted president Hosni Mubarak.On Monday he also announced the 34 members of his party who won seats will quit parliament.He has joined forces with Tahir-ul-Qadri, a Barelvi cleric with a considerable support base, who also wants to see the resignation of the government.Unlike Khan, Qadri does not want fresh elections but the establishment of a \"national government\" of technocrats.The protests in the capital have already gone on for five days. The prospect of the standoff continuing outside the nation's parliament could see the army playing an arbitration role.Late on Tuesday army spokesman General Asim Bajwa tweeted an appeal for \"patience, wisdom [and] sagacity from all stakeholders through larger national and public interest\".Over the last year Sharif has been weakened by damaging disputes with the powerful military establishment which removed him from power in the 1999 coup led by Pervez Musharraf.Despite an outright parliamentary majority, the ongoing political crisis is likely to weaken him further and could make him reliant on the army for his political survival.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "World news"], "title": "Protesters march on Pakistan parliament 'red zone'"},{"date": "2014-09-16T14:52:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Fury with a \"VIP culture\" that routinely sees commercial flights in Pakistan delayed to accommodate the schedule of politicians boiled over this week when passengers angrily prevented the country's former interior minister from boarding an aircraft.Fuming travellers had been waiting in their seats when Rehman Malik, one of the country's most recognisable politicians, sauntered down the air bridge to the Pakistan International Airlines jet more than 90 minutes after its scheduled departure from Karachi to Islamabad on Monday.Malik promptly turned tail when a furious group of travellers waiting by the door to the aircraft began heckling, with some chasing him back to the terminal building shouting and calling him a \"stupid dog\".\"Rehman Malik sahib, 250 passengers had to suffer because of you!\" One man could be heard shouting. \"You are not a minister any more and even if you were a minister we don't care, we don't care any more!\"Video of the event captured on passengers' phones went viral in a country where politicians are widely regarded as corrupt and deeply resented for the disruptions to daily life that they cause.That includes traffic jams created by the security convoys of ministers and the habit of turning up to political rallies many hours after the crowds who come to see them.One Facebook page hosting the video said the incident demonstrated the growing clout of Pakistan's middle class over traditional elites.\"The common man starts believing that respect is not about how much money you have or about the position that you hold,\" said Faheem Azam, an arts personality. \"When they understand that respect has to be earned by being fair, humble, honest, committed and sometimes by just being respectful towards others.\"While the former minister fled back to the safety of the airport, another government party politician called Ramesh Kumar Wakwani managed to board the plane only to be vigorously interrogated by suspicious passengers who demanded to know who he was.Initially he described himself merely as a \"doctor\" before eventually admitting to being an elected member of Pakistan's national assembly.That prompted jeers that he was behaving like a feudal lord and demands for him to leave the plane. Amid cries of \"shame\" he eventually surrendered his prized extra legroom seat in the front row of the economy class cabin.Malik defended himself on Twitter, saying he had not been responsible for the delay, which the state-owned national carrier said was due to technical reasons.\"I suffered equally,\" he said on Twitter \u2013 although unlike the other passengers he was allowed to wait in the comfort of the lounge.The stalwart of the opposition Pakistan People's party is one of the country's most colourful politicians, famous for his purple rinse hairstyle, odd pronouncements and for dashing to the scenes of the regular terrorist attacks that blighted his time as interior minister.Widely regarded as a buffoon, he compared himself to Winston Churchill, Peter Mandelson and David Miliband in an interview last year.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Airline industry", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Passenger rage forces Pakistan politician who delayed flight to flee"},{"date": "2014-09-10T08:25:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A more plot-heavy trailer for the fourth season of Homeland has been released, detailing where the political thriller is going next, following the loss of key character Nicholas Brody (Damian Lewis) in Iran at the end of a patchy season three. With showrunner Alex Gansa promising a \u201creset\u201d, the action has moved to Pakistan. A drone strike has hit what appears to be a children\u2019s party, and with a video of the attack being leaked online, the US government - in the form of slippery Senator Lockhart - is forced to defend its actions.Carrie is back in the field, where she is joined by Saul (so what happened to that private contractor gig he landed at the end of the third run?). She appears to be simultaneously struggling with motherhood, perhaps because they have managed to cast a baby who looks almost terrifyingly like its on-screen father.Much of Homeland\u2019s initial strength came from its ability to negotiate murky moral waters, and though it may be premature to predict a return to season one form, the new trailer does offer a little hope that the show may find its feet again. Plus - no Dana Brody!Homeland returns with a double-bill in the US on 5 October on Showtime, and will be on Channel 4 later this year.", "tags": ["Homeland", "Television", "Television & radio", "Drama", "Culture", "US television", "Damian Lewis"], "title": "Homeland season four trailer: drone strikes, Pakistan and baby Brody"},{"date": "2014-09-09T10:00:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Staff absenteeism at health centres across Africa and South Asia is notoriously high. Our baseline measurement at clinics in rural Punjab, Pakistan found doctors to be absent 58% of the time. As so often is the case with service delivery in developing countries \u2013 and with economic development in general \u2013 links along the chain are opportunities for the process to break down. All of these links depend on humans. We wondered if measurable personality traits affect how public servants perform, and how understanding this relationship might help improve service delivery.Several studies, in particular those led by Nobel laureate James Heckman, have shown that five personality traits \u2013 openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness and neuroticism \u2013 are robust predictors of behaviour. Another study shows that the personality types who take a government job changes depending on the wage. Motivated by their methodology, we decided to test if the five personality traits \u2013 along with a sixth, public sector motivation \u2013 affect how public servants perform.We applied personality tests to three tiers of public servants (doctors, inspectors and senior officials) across the 36 districts of Punjab. Notably, the senior officials are responsible for public healthcare affecting millions of people. In random districts, we replaced the paper-based system with smartphones that fed attendance data straight up the chain. We conducted unannounced visits to health facilities and developed a way of measuring collusion between inspectors and clinic doctors. Finally, we created an index of traits that could be desirable in a civil servant, such as emotional stability, conscientiousness and agreeableness.Three major results emerged from the experiment. First, a high score on our index predicts that doctors will show up to work and negatively predicts that they will collude with inspectors to falsify reports. Second, smartphone monitoring has the largest impact on inspectors who have a high index score. Third, senior health officials with high index scores are more likely than others to respond to a report of an underperforming clinic. All of these effects are large and statistically significant.In short, our study suggests that strategically placing officials who show the right combination of personality traits, and combining this placement with smart policies, can greatly improve outcomes for the public, at a relatively low cost.But if such results are replicated in a variety of contexts and turned into policy, will we end up in a brave new world where people are tested and directed to the positions deemed desirable? We think not. To understand why, it is important to take a step back.Despite how we tend to see our own personalities, traits are not static. For one thing, they change over our lifetimes. Psychologist Brent Roberts has shown that the trait conscientiousness takes gradual steps up throughout the lifetime \u2013 including a considerable jump between 45 and 55. Secondly, there is evidence that certain traits can be manipulated. James Heckman and coauthors showed this using long-range data from the Perry Preschool Programme that gave added emotional and social support to disadvantaged children. Heckman\u2019s recent study shows that treatment children, now in their 40s, show greater success on a variety of socioeconomic measures \u2013 evidence that altered personality traits made the difference.Whether traits can be manipulated once individuals mature, however, remains an open question. Experiments could determine if training programmes can be used to alter civil servant traits in a beneficial way. More broadly, adding social supports early in life could have benefits for individuals and societies down the road.Guiding people into certain positions at certain ages may have benefits too. Based on estimates from our study, if the government of Punjab (population 100 million) replaced the bottom 25% of doctors with average doctors in terms of conscientiousness, for example, 9,500 more patients would be seen every month. While the estimates underlying this are admittedly rough, and while we are not advocating firing any doctors, it suggests that taking personality measurement seriously could open new doors that would greatly improve the provision of services.To return to the short term, however, our study may have a more practical use for development practitioners. Generally, practitioners and researchers tend to focus on reforms that strengthen incentives. Our findings give us confidence that changing the composition of the workforce by attracting better people, promoting better people, and/or better tailoring their individual incentives can improve health service delivery.Our study gives a sense of how things get accomplished in settings where existing incentive schemes should lead to nothing getting done. In our setting, there is little chance of being fired for being absent, yet doctors are still present 42% of the time. This is a depressingly low number, but it is not zero as would be predicted considering only the incentives. After all, why would one go to work when they do not need to do so to get paid?Given these realities, new policies and new information can be intelligently targeted at civil servants who are identified by personality tests as more intrinsically motivated. Such policies might provide useful complements to more traditional strategies \u2013 such as increasing worker monitoring or performance incentives \u2013 and provide the basis for additional, cost-effective policies for better public health.Arman Rezaee is a PhD candidate at the University of California San Diego and Michael Callen is an assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School. Follow @arezaee and @EPoDHarvard on Twitter. Read more stories like this:\u2022 The toughest job in Nigerian healthcare\u2022 Task shifting explained: a viable solution to health worker shortage?\u2022 Power to the people: how open data is improving health service deliveryJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global health innovation - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Technology", "Research", "Pakistan", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Psychology", "Science", "Hospitals", "Doctors"], "title": "How can personality tests improve the health service in Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-08-29T16:31:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A kiss is just a kiss \u2013 unless it is in the colourful world of Bollywood and it takes place between Pakistan's highest paid female actor and an up and coming Indian screen star.A scene in a new film, Raja Natwarlal, starring Pakistan's sweetheart Humaima Malick and actor Emraan Hashmi has caused a huge row in Malick's homeland \u2013 and is expected to be cut from the film before it is released there.Raja Natwarlal, realised in the UK on Friday, is typical Bollywood fare, in which Malick plays a dancer in a bar who falls in love with a conman seeking to avenge the death of his partner in crime. The \"love\" scene is steamier than usual and there's no doubt the film has benefited from all the column inches this has generated.Kissing scenes have only been a recent phenomenon in Bollywood after the relaxation of strict censorship rules. Prior to that, stars were restricted to conveying passion through stares and the implied raunchiness of dance routines. However, in Pakistan there is still a huge stigma attached and many people have accused Malick of selling out her Pakistani heritage.In reply, she said the backlash was largely due to the fact that she was kissing an Indian man.\"Films in India do\u00a0show intimacy through an occasional full lipped kiss\u00a0and I\u00a0was very reluctant to share a kiss with my co-star,\" she said. \"But the director explained how it doesn't cross the line\u00a0between romance and sleaze. I had\u00a0to trust\u00a0my director's sensibilities.\"I did face some backlash and mostly it was because 'our' woman was involved in a kissing scene and it was considered worse because it was with a guy who was not Pakistani.\"She added that women were judged more harshly than men. \"Local media and society has an obvious\u00a0bias towards male actors and men in general and the morality standards are different for women.\u00a0Sexism occurs all over the world, not just in Pakistan. \u00a0\"People have to understand I am playing a role. Having said that, I think people are less worked up by the scene than they would have been five or 10 years ago. The new generation have grown up with Hollywood and Bollywood films. Put it this way, I haven't had any death threats yet. \"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Bollywood", "World news", "Film", "India", "Culture"], "title": "Humaima Malick's cross-border Bollywood kiss sparks row in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-08-17T13:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistan opposition leader Imran Khan has warned the country's government that thousands of his supporters will storm Pakistan's parliament and other sensitive buildings if his demand for its immediate resignation was not met.The threat, issued during a late night rally in Islamabad on Saturday, raises the stakes of his so-called \"freedom march\" against alleged electoral fraud that has been marred by a disappointing turnout and monsoon rainfall.The government has vowed to protect buildings inside the city's \"red zone\" and says 30,000 security force members are on hand to keep protesters out from the area, already barricaded with shipping containers.Late on Sunday, thousands of supporters of Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party began moving towards a large stack of containers on a major avenue leading to the red zone. Television pictures showed riot police gathering on the other side.Analysts say a violent confrontation with authorities could be the only way to save his much-heralded protest, which some have already written off as a flop.Khan set off from the city of Lahore on Thursday for a slow drive to the capital, where it was hoped a massive sit-in would force the resignation of prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, and force fresh elections. But he has failed to attract anything like the million supporters he claimed would attend and other leading political parties have so far refused to offer their support.Serious unrest in the capital may force an intervention by Pakistan's powerful military \u2013 the only conceivable way many commentators believe Sharif could be ousted given the prime minister's huge parliamentary majority.\"I'm controlling the anger of my workers,\" Khan warned, citing the example of the 2011 protests in Tahrir Square that toppled the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak. \"But I will not able to control it for long.\"A parallel protest has been ongoing a few blocks away led by Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri, a cleric who despite being based in Canada commands a devoted following among Barelvi Muslims who watch his regular television broadcasts and his support his charitable foundation.Qadri has dismissed Khan's calls for fresh elections, arguing Pakistan's democracy is so compromised by corrupt politicians that the country should be ruled by a \"national government\" of technocrats.Despite the presence of the two charismatic leaders the crowds have been far smaller than expected. Most estimates suggest the number of people peaked at about 50,000, with Qadri attracting considerably more.Hostile quarters of the media have highlighted the fact that Khan slipped off to rest at his nearby hilltop mansion on Friday, despite promises he would remain on the streets among his supporters. He did manage a few hours under the stars the following night however.Also sparking media outrage was footage of the PTI's most powerful elected official, Pervaiz Khattak, the chief minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, dancing at the rally on Saturday night. Critics said he should have been at work overseeing relief efforts in his province, which has been hit by monsoon floods that have killed at least 18 people.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Imran Khan"], "title": "Imran Khan warns Pakistan ministers his supporters could storm parliament"},{"date": "2014-08-10T15:48:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is bracing itself for huge street protests in the capital, Islamabad, this week amid political crisis that has resulted in cities' petrol supplies being cut, clashes between police and the followers of a controversial cleric in Lahore, and demands by politician and former cricketer Imran Khan for the government to quit.The chaos and political uncertainly comes a little more than a year after a landslide election victory swept Nawaz Sharif, a conservative businessman, to power for the third time. Sharif's thumping parliamentary majority led to a rare outbreak of optimism among Pakistan watchers who dared to hope the new prime minister had the mandate to achieve his aims of reviving a broken economy, making peace with India and tackling Islamist militancy.But in the 14 months since he took office, Sharif's authority has been undermined by Pakistan's powerful military, Canada-based cleric Tahir-ul-Qadri and Khan \u2013 a demagogue politician who claims Sharif's faction of the Pakistan Muslim League (PML-N) rigged the election.Khan has vowed to bring Islamabad to a standstill on Thursday, the county's independence day, when huge numbers of his supporters will flood into the capital. He has vowed that they will remain until the government steps down and fresh elections are called.Khan's behaviour has baffled many analysts and diplomats who are not convinced the election was so flawed that Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party was illegitimately denied victory. Most international observers judged the 2013 polls to have been considerably better than previous general elections.\"We didn't reject the election results immediately because we thought we could get relief from the courts,\" said senior PTI leader Shafqat Mahmood. \"But now we have decided that everything we tried in parliament and the courts has not worked and so we have no recourse but to launch a huge protest.\"Sceptical observers point out that Khan has no way to legally achieve his aims given the government has a huge majority in parliament and is unlikely to vote itself out of existence. Nonetheless, the prospect of Khan's \"Freedom March\" (in reality, a motorised drive) from Lahore to Islamabad on Thursday, has seriously alarmed the government. Drastic steps have been taken to try to block the protest, including declaring a ban on gatherings of more than four people and giving the army responsibility for guarding Islamabad.Other methods include the impounding of motorbikes and buses and the closure of petrol stations. The motorway linking Islamabad to Lahore is likely to be shut down. Critics say the government has mishandled the situation and should have allowed demonstrations to peter out during the sweltering monsoon conditions.The government fears the presence of tens of thousands protesters in the capital could trigger violent confrontations creating an opening for an intervention by the army, which has seized power at several points in Pakistan's history.Addressing the press on Friday at his luxurious hilltop estate overlooking the capital, Khan said his supporters had the right to resist any attempts by the police or the army to enforce the ban on protests in the capital. \"The police are not Pakistan's police but Nawaz Sharif's private henchmen,\" he said. \"If they try to stop peaceful protest then there is going to be violence.\"Sharif's power has been challenged in the prime minister's home city of Lahore, the capital of Punjab province. Violent supporters of Qadri have been fighting against police in cities across Punjab.Qadri enjoys the support of huge numbers of committed activists through his political party, the Pakistan Awami Tehreek (PAT) and his religious organisation, the Minhaj-ul-Quran. He has long called for revolution, claiming Pakistan's democratic structure is mired in corruption and must be swept away. In recent days his supporters have clashed with police near his office in an upmarket neighbourhood of Lahore where the city's authorities had attempted to stop activists commemorating the killing in June of 14 party workers during an earlier standoff with police.Qadri has promised his \"Green Revolution\" will see the immediate incarceration of government ministers and the introduction of a \"10-point revolutionary agenda\".Based for much of the time in Canada, he flew into Pakistan in June, when the government diverted his commercial flight to Lahore to prevent him landing in Islamabad where his supporters were waiting for him. On Sunday Qadri announced he would also lead a \"Revolution March\" of his supporters on Islamabad, although the PTI and PAT have not formally joined their efforts.On Sunday the police charged Qadri with murder, incitement to violence and treason after the death of a police constable who was wounded in confrontations in Lahore on Friday.", "tags": ["Imran Khan", "Pakistan", "Protest", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan protests: Islamabad prepares for anti-government demonstration"},{"date": "2014-07-17T14:39:25Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Afghan officials have accused Pakistan of letting Afghan militants escape a complex crackdown on insurgent hideouts, after a massive truck bomb killed dozens of civilians in a crowded bazaar earlier this week.The vehicle was packed with explosives across the border and driven into Afghanistan even as the Pakistani military battled to extend their control of North Waziristan beyond the administrative headquarters of Miran Shah, according to a spokesman for Afghanistan's intelligence agency, the National Directorate of Security.\"The Haqqani network was behind this attack,\" Abdul Haseeb Sadique said of the bombing on Tuesday. \"It was planned and designed in Miran Shah. The aim of this attack was to inflict maximum casualties, regardless of whether they were civilians or military.\"The Haqqani network is perhaps the wealthiest and most ruthless of several Taliban-linked groups that operate out of western Pakistan; much of their support comes from their home province, Khost.The Afghan government has long accused its neighbour's intelligence service of supporting insurgents with money, arms, advice and safe havens. Islamabad says the accusations are groundless and it has no control over areas that were ceded long ago to groups fighting their own state.Operation Zarb-e-Azb, a long-delayed effort to seize back the area from militant groups, began on 15 June. It has effectively emptied the area of civilians, with nearly a million fleeing within Pakistan and tens of thousands across the border into Afghanistan, raising worries that insurgents might be lying low among them.The Pakistani army insists that all insurgents will be targeted and says more than 400 have been killed so far, but a senior Afghan intelligence official said he was not aware of any Afghans among the dead or captured.\"Haqqani network has planned and has managed to organise such a large, spectacular intelligence-led operation inside Waziristan \u2026 coordinate the transport to Afghanistan, cross the border, come to the attack area and blow it up,\" the official said.\"It tells us a story that something is wrong, either the operation is a failure or there is an intention that the Haqqanis are not going to be the target.\" The official said he had reports of Haqqani leaders evacuated to safety and small \"safe havens\" set up for lower-level fighters to escape the crackdown.Tuesday's attack was far beyond the capacities of local Taliban, and fits with a pattern of similar assaults and attempted attacks by Haqqani fighters. Authorities have intercepted five truck bombs in the past 16 months, mostly heading for Kabul, and one other reached its target in a province just south of Kabul, killing dozens in an attack on the governor's compound.On 11 June another massive truck bomb was destroyed by a US drone just 20km north of Miran Shah as it was travelling the short distance to the Afghan border, from where insurgents can easily reach major provincial capitals.After just a month of operations, Pakistan does not yet fully control Waziristan, a large and partly mountainous region. However on Wednesday it was reported that leading Pakistani Taliban commander Adnan Rashid had been captured, although officials refused to confirm the arrest.While Pakistan has been accused of colluding with militants vying for power in Kabul, Rashid, a former air force technician, is regarded as an arch member of the \"bad Taliban\" that Islamabad wants to uproot because they target Pakistan.He was the mastermind of a 2003 suicide car bomb plot to kill former president Pervez Musharraf, and escaped from a prison near North Waziristan during a mass jailbreak organised by the Pakistani Taliban in 2012.The Pakistani government has also complained to Afghanistan that it is providing shelter to militants in its own lawless border regions, and requested their eviction. It was a demand that many in Kabul found ironic after years of making similar pleas to no effect in Islamabad.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Afghanistan accuses Pakistan of letting Haqqani militants escape crackdown"},{"date": "2014-07-14T06:45:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Journalists in Pakistan have agreed to reunite the three factions of their trades union, which separated some 36 years ago.The leaderships of all three splinter groups of the Pakistan Federal Union of Journalists (PFUJ) have agreed to form a unified organisation, reports Dawn.Given that the country's journalists are under life-threatening pressures from a variety of paramilitary gangs, plus certain sections within Pakistan's security forces, the reunification makes sense.The PFUJ's break-up began after the 1977 imposition of martial law by the late General Zia-ul-Haq. A group of largely right-wing journalists immediately left the PFUJ to form PFUJ-Dastoor.The PFUJ also faced a setback last year when two groups, one led by Afzal Butt and another by Pervaiz Shaukat, went their separate ways after disputed elections.But Dawn reports that the representatives of the three factions - Afzal Butt, Pervez Shoukat and Idrees Bakhtiar - have signed a unity memorandum. Mazhar Abbas, a former president of the PFUJ, said: \"Times are changing and now there is no alternative to unity.\"Idrees Bakhtiar said there was no major difference between the constitutions of the three factions. However, the three executive councils will need to give their approval to the deal agreed by their leaders. A final decision is expected on 30 August.The early signs, according to copies of emails copied to me, suggest there is enthusiastic grassroots support for the reunification.Source: Dawn", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan journalists' unions agree to reunite after 36 years"},{"date": "2014-08-19T22:25:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters swarmed towards Pakistan's parliament late on Tuesday night after using bolt cutters and cranes to swiftly remove barricades designed to keep them away from the most sensitive areas of the country's capital city.An estimated 50,000 protesters, led by an opposition politician and a Canada-based cleric, had been holding demonstrations in Islamabad for five days to demand the resignation of the government led by prime minister Nawaz Sharif.But until Tuesday they had held back on threats to move on Islamabad's \"red zone\" which houses parliament, the prime minister's office and most foreign embassies.Such a move risked sparking a violent confrontation with police and the army, which in an unusual move had in recent weeks been called in to buttress security in the capital, with about 700 personnel posted inside the red zone.The challenge from the protesters puts Sharif in a difficult position. Major bloodshed defending the red zone could create the conditions for intervention by the country's powerful army, which has a long record of sacking civilian governments throughout Pakistan's turbulent history.At the risk of looking weak, Sharif opted to allow the demonstrators to move into the heart of the capital.No attempt was made to block the progress of marchers by police, many of whom were armed with nothing more than sticks.Protesters were even able to drive cranes into the capital to remove stacks of sea containers placed on key roads leading to the red zone.In a tweet, his daughter Maryam Sharif said the prime minister had ordered police \"not to use any kind of force against the protesters\" in order to protect the many women and children among them.Imran Khan, one of the leaders of the demonstrations, deliberately put women and children at the head of the marchers, while he was conveyed with senior party members on the roof of a specially converted sea container.Despite repeatedly claiming in a speech earlier in the evening that he would lead a peaceful demonstration, many of his supporters carried sticks and were prepared for tear gas with goggles.Khan, the leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, is demanding the resignation of Sharif's government which he claims won a landslide victory in last year's general election on the basis of massive electoral fraud, although his allegations have not been supported by independent observers.He has promised to turn the area in front of Pakistan's national assembly building into a \"Tahrir Square\", referring to the 2011 protests in Cairo that ousted president Hosni Mubarak.On Monday he also announced the 34 members of his party who won seats will quit parliament.He has joined forces with Tahir-ul-Qadri, a Barelvi cleric with a considerable support base, who also wants to see the resignation of the government.Unlike Khan, Qadri does not want fresh elections but the establishment of a \"national government\" of technocrats.The protests in the capital have already gone on for five days. The prospect of the standoff continuing outside the nation's parliament could see the army playing an arbitration role.Late on Tuesday army spokesman General Asim Bajwa tweeted an appeal for \"patience, wisdom [and] sagacity from all stakeholders through larger national and public interest\".Over the last year Sharif has been weakened by damaging disputes with the powerful military establishment which removed him from power in the 1999 coup led by Pervez Musharraf.Despite an outright parliamentary majority, the ongoing political crisis is likely to weaken him further and could make him reliant on the army for his political survival.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Imran Khan", "World news"], "title": "Protesters march on Pakistan parliament 'red zone'"},{"date": "2014-09-16T14:52:45Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Fury with a \"VIP culture\" that routinely sees commercial flights in Pakistan delayed to accommodate the schedule of politicians boiled over this week when passengers angrily prevented the country's former interior minister from boarding an aircraft.Fuming travellers had been waiting in their seats when Rehman Malik, one of the country's most recognisable politicians, sauntered down the air bridge to the Pakistan International Airlines jet more than 90 minutes after its scheduled departure from Karachi to Islamabad on Monday.Malik promptly turned tail when a furious group of travellers waiting by the door to the aircraft began heckling, with some chasing him back to the terminal building shouting and calling him a \"stupid dog\".\"Rehman Malik sahib, 250 passengers had to suffer because of you!\" One man could be heard shouting. \"You are not a minister any more and even if you were a minister we don't care, we don't care any more!\"Video of the event captured on passengers' phones went viral in a country where politicians are widely regarded as corrupt and deeply resented for the disruptions to daily life that they cause.That includes traffic jams created by the security convoys of ministers and the habit of turning up to political rallies many hours after the crowds who come to see them.One Facebook page hosting the video said the incident demonstrated the growing clout of Pakistan's middle class over traditional elites.\"The common man starts believing that respect is not about how much money you have or about the position that you hold,\" said Faheem Azam, an arts personality. \"When they understand that respect has to be earned by being fair, humble, honest, committed and sometimes by just being respectful towards others.\"While the former minister fled back to the safety of the airport, another government party politician called Ramesh Kumar Wakwani managed to board the plane only to be vigorously interrogated by suspicious passengers who demanded to know who he was.Initially he described himself merely as a \"doctor\" before eventually admitting to being an elected member of Pakistan's national assembly.That prompted jeers that he was behaving like a feudal lord and demands for him to leave the plane. Amid cries of \"shame\" he eventually surrendered his prized extra legroom seat in the front row of the economy class cabin.Malik defended himself on Twitter, saying he had not been responsible for the delay, which the state-owned national carrier said was due to technical reasons.\"I suffered equally,\" he said on Twitter \u2013 although unlike the other passengers he was allowed to wait in the comfort of the lounge.The stalwart of the opposition Pakistan People's party is one of the country's most colourful politicians, famous for his purple rinse hairstyle, odd pronouncements and for dashing to the scenes of the regular terrorist attacks that blighted his time as interior minister.Widely regarded as a buffoon, he compared himself to Winston Churchill, Peter Mandelson and David Miliband in an interview last year.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Airline industry", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Passenger rage forces Pakistan politician who delayed flight to flee"},{"date": "2014-09-10T08:25:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A more plot-heavy trailer for the fourth season of Homeland has been released, detailing where the political thriller is going next, following the loss of key character Nicholas Brody (Damian Lewis) in Iran at the end of a patchy season three. With showrunner Alex Gansa promising a \u201creset\u201d, the action has moved to Pakistan. A drone strike has hit what appears to be a children\u2019s party, and with a video of the attack being leaked online, the US government - in the form of slippery Senator Lockhart - is forced to defend its actions.Carrie is back in the field, where she is joined by Saul (so what happened to that private contractor gig he landed at the end of the third run?). She appears to be simultaneously struggling with motherhood, perhaps because they have managed to cast a baby who looks almost terrifyingly like its on-screen father.Much of Homeland\u2019s initial strength came from its ability to negotiate murky moral waters, and though it may be premature to predict a return to season one form, the new trailer does offer a little hope that the show may find its feet again. Plus - no Dana Brody!Homeland returns with a double-bill in the US on 5 October on Showtime, and will be on Channel 4 later this year.", "tags": ["Homeland", "Television", "Television & radio", "Drama", "Culture", "US television", "Damian Lewis"], "title": "Homeland season four trailer: drone strikes, Pakistan and baby Brody"},{"date": "2014-09-09T10:00:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Staff absenteeism at health centres across Africa and South Asia is notoriously high. Our baseline measurement at clinics in rural Punjab, Pakistan found doctors to be absent 58% of the time. As so often is the case with service delivery in developing countries \u2013 and with economic development in general \u2013 links along the chain are opportunities for the process to break down. All of these links depend on humans. We wondered if measurable personality traits affect how public servants perform, and how understanding this relationship might help improve service delivery.Several studies, in particular those led by Nobel laureate James Heckman, have shown that five personality traits \u2013 openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness and neuroticism \u2013 are robust predictors of behaviour. Another study shows that the personality types who take a government job changes depending on the wage. Motivated by their methodology, we decided to test if the five personality traits \u2013 along with a sixth, public sector motivation \u2013 affect how public servants perform.We applied personality tests to three tiers of public servants (doctors, inspectors and senior officials) across the 36 districts of Punjab. Notably, the senior officials are responsible for public healthcare affecting millions of people. In random districts, we replaced the paper-based system with smartphones that fed attendance data straight up the chain. We conducted unannounced visits to health facilities and developed a way of measuring collusion between inspectors and clinic doctors. Finally, we created an index of traits that could be desirable in a civil servant, such as emotional stability, conscientiousness and agreeableness.Three major results emerged from the experiment. First, a high score on our index predicts that doctors will show up to work and negatively predicts that they will collude with inspectors to falsify reports. Second, smartphone monitoring has the largest impact on inspectors who have a high index score. Third, senior health officials with high index scores are more likely than others to respond to a report of an underperforming clinic. All of these effects are large and statistically significant.In short, our study suggests that strategically placing officials who show the right combination of personality traits, and combining this placement with smart policies, can greatly improve outcomes for the public, at a relatively low cost.But if such results are replicated in a variety of contexts and turned into policy, will we end up in a brave new world where people are tested and directed to the positions deemed desirable? We think not. To understand why, it is important to take a step back.Despite how we tend to see our own personalities, traits are not static. For one thing, they change over our lifetimes. Psychologist Brent Roberts has shown that the trait conscientiousness takes gradual steps up throughout the lifetime \u2013 including a considerable jump between 45 and 55. Secondly, there is evidence that certain traits can be manipulated. James Heckman and coauthors showed this using long-range data from the Perry Preschool Programme that gave added emotional and social support to disadvantaged children. Heckman\u2019s recent study shows that treatment children, now in their 40s, show greater success on a variety of socioeconomic measures \u2013 evidence that altered personality traits made the difference.Whether traits can be manipulated once individuals mature, however, remains an open question. Experiments could determine if training programmes can be used to alter civil servant traits in a beneficial way. More broadly, adding social supports early in life could have benefits for individuals and societies down the road.Guiding people into certain positions at certain ages may have benefits too. Based on estimates from our study, if the government of Punjab (population 100 million) replaced the bottom 25% of doctors with average doctors in terms of conscientiousness, for example, 9,500 more patients would be seen every month. While the estimates underlying this are admittedly rough, and while we are not advocating firing any doctors, it suggests that taking personality measurement seriously could open new doors that would greatly improve the provision of services.To return to the short term, however, our study may have a more practical use for development practitioners. Generally, practitioners and researchers tend to focus on reforms that strengthen incentives. Our findings give us confidence that changing the composition of the workforce by attracting better people, promoting better people, and/or better tailoring their individual incentives can improve health service delivery.Our study gives a sense of how things get accomplished in settings where existing incentive schemes should lead to nothing getting done. In our setting, there is little chance of being fired for being absent, yet doctors are still present 42% of the time. This is a depressingly low number, but it is not zero as would be predicted considering only the incentives. After all, why would one go to work when they do not need to do so to get paid?Given these realities, new policies and new information can be intelligently targeted at civil servants who are identified by personality tests as more intrinsically motivated. Such policies might provide useful complements to more traditional strategies \u2013 such as increasing worker monitoring or performance incentives \u2013 and provide the basis for additional, cost-effective policies for better public health.Arman Rezaee is a PhD candidate at the University of California San Diego and Michael Callen is an assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School. Follow @arezaee and @EPoDHarvard on Twitter. Read more stories like this:\u2022 The toughest job in Nigerian healthcare\u2022 Task shifting explained: a viable solution to health worker shortage?\u2022 Power to the people: how open data is improving health service deliveryJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global health innovation - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Technology", "Research", "Pakistan", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Psychology", "Science", "Hospitals", "Doctors"], "title": "How can personality tests improve the health service in Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-08-29T16:31:05Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A kiss is just a kiss \u2013 unless it is in the colourful world of Bollywood and it takes place between Pakistan's highest paid female actor and an up and coming Indian screen star.A scene in a new film, Raja Natwarlal, starring Pakistan's sweetheart Humaima Malick and actor Emraan Hashmi has caused a huge row in Malick's homeland \u2013 and is expected to be cut from the film before it is released there.Raja Natwarlal, realised in the UK on Friday, is typical Bollywood fare, in which Malick plays a dancer in a bar who falls in love with a conman seeking to avenge the death of his partner in crime. The \"love\" scene is steamier than usual and there's no doubt the film has benefited from all the column inches this has generated.Kissing scenes have only been a recent phenomenon in Bollywood after the relaxation of strict censorship rules. Prior to that, stars were restricted to conveying passion through stares and the implied raunchiness of dance routines. However, in Pakistan there is still a huge stigma attached and many people have accused Malick of selling out her Pakistani heritage.In reply, she said the backlash was largely due to the fact that she was kissing an Indian man.\"Films in India do\u00a0show intimacy through an occasional full lipped kiss\u00a0and I\u00a0was very reluctant to share a kiss with my co-star,\" she said. \"But the director explained how it doesn't cross the line\u00a0between romance and sleaze. I had\u00a0to trust\u00a0my director's sensibilities.\"I did face some backlash and mostly it was because 'our' woman was involved in a kissing scene and it was considered worse because it was with a guy who was not Pakistani.\"She added that women were judged more harshly than men. \"Local media and society has an obvious\u00a0bias towards male actors and men in general and the morality standards are different for women.\u00a0Sexism occurs all over the world, not just in Pakistan. \u00a0\"People have to understand I am playing a role. Having said that, I think people are less worked up by the scene than they would have been five or 10 years ago. The new generation have grown up with Hollywood and Bollywood films. Put it this way, I haven't had any death threats yet. \"", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Bollywood", "World news", "Film", "India", "Culture"], "title": "Humaima Malick's cross-border Bollywood kiss sparks row in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-08-17T13:30:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistan opposition leader Imran Khan has warned the country's government that thousands of his supporters will storm Pakistan's parliament and other sensitive buildings if his demand for its immediate resignation was not met.The threat, issued during a late night rally in Islamabad on Saturday, raises the stakes of his so-called \"freedom march\" against alleged electoral fraud that has been marred by a disappointing turnout and monsoon rainfall.The government has vowed to protect buildings inside the city's \"red zone\" and says 30,000 security force members are on hand to keep protesters out from the area, already barricaded with shipping containers.Late on Sunday, thousands of supporters of Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party began moving towards a large stack of containers on a major avenue leading to the red zone. Television pictures showed riot police gathering on the other side.Analysts say a violent confrontation with authorities could be the only way to save his much-heralded protest, which some have already written off as a flop.Khan set off from the city of Lahore on Thursday for a slow drive to the capital, where it was hoped a massive sit-in would force the resignation of prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, and force fresh elections. But he has failed to attract anything like the million supporters he claimed would attend and other leading political parties have so far refused to offer their support.Serious unrest in the capital may force an intervention by Pakistan's powerful military \u2013 the only conceivable way many commentators believe Sharif could be ousted given the prime minister's huge parliamentary majority.\"I'm controlling the anger of my workers,\" Khan warned, citing the example of the 2011 protests in Tahrir Square that toppled the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak. \"But I will not able to control it for long.\"A parallel protest has been ongoing a few blocks away led by Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri, a cleric who despite being based in Canada commands a devoted following among Barelvi Muslims who watch his regular television broadcasts and his support his charitable foundation.Qadri has dismissed Khan's calls for fresh elections, arguing Pakistan's democracy is so compromised by corrupt politicians that the country should be ruled by a \"national government\" of technocrats.Despite the presence of the two charismatic leaders the crowds have been far smaller than expected. Most estimates suggest the number of people peaked at about 50,000, with Qadri attracting considerably more.Hostile quarters of the media have highlighted the fact that Khan slipped off to rest at his nearby hilltop mansion on Friday, despite promises he would remain on the streets among his supporters. He did manage a few hours under the stars the following night however.Also sparking media outrage was footage of the PTI's most powerful elected official, Pervaiz Khattak, the chief minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, dancing at the rally on Saturday night. Critics said he should have been at work overseeing relief efforts in his province, which has been hit by monsoon floods that have killed at least 18 people.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Imran Khan"], "title": "Imran Khan warns Pakistan ministers his supporters could storm parliament"},{"date": "2014-08-10T15:48:29Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan is bracing itself for huge street protests in the capital, Islamabad, this week amid political crisis that has resulted in cities' petrol supplies being cut, clashes between police and the followers of a controversial cleric in Lahore, and demands by politician and former cricketer Imran Khan for the government to quit.The chaos and political uncertainly comes a little more than a year after a landslide election victory swept Nawaz Sharif, a conservative businessman, to power for the third time. Sharif's thumping parliamentary majority led to a rare outbreak of optimism among Pakistan watchers who dared to hope the new prime minister had the mandate to achieve his aims of reviving a broken economy, making peace with India and tackling Islamist militancy.But in the 14 months since he took office, Sharif's authority has been undermined by Pakistan's powerful military, Canada-based cleric Tahir-ul-Qadri and Khan \u2013 a demagogue politician who claims Sharif's faction of the Pakistan Muslim League (PML-N) rigged the election.Khan has vowed to bring Islamabad to a standstill on Thursday, the county's independence day, when huge numbers of his supporters will flood into the capital. He has vowed that they will remain until the government steps down and fresh elections are called.Khan's behaviour has baffled many analysts and diplomats who are not convinced the election was so flawed that Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party was illegitimately denied victory. Most international observers judged the 2013 polls to have been considerably better than previous general elections.\"We didn't reject the election results immediately because we thought we could get relief from the courts,\" said senior PTI leader Shafqat Mahmood. \"But now we have decided that everything we tried in parliament and the courts has not worked and so we have no recourse but to launch a huge protest.\"Sceptical observers point out that Khan has no way to legally achieve his aims given the government has a huge majority in parliament and is unlikely to vote itself out of existence. Nonetheless, the prospect of Khan's \"Freedom March\" (in reality, a motorised drive) from Lahore to Islamabad on Thursday, has seriously alarmed the government. Drastic steps have been taken to try to block the protest, including declaring a ban on gatherings of more than four people and giving the army responsibility for guarding Islamabad.Other methods include the impounding of motorbikes and buses and the closure of petrol stations. The motorway linking Islamabad to Lahore is likely to be shut down. Critics say the government has mishandled the situation and should have allowed demonstrations to peter out during the sweltering monsoon conditions.The government fears the presence of tens of thousands protesters in the capital could trigger violent confrontations creating an opening for an intervention by the army, which has seized power at several points in Pakistan's history.Addressing the press on Friday at his luxurious hilltop estate overlooking the capital, Khan said his supporters had the right to resist any attempts by the police or the army to enforce the ban on protests in the capital. \"The police are not Pakistan's police but Nawaz Sharif's private henchmen,\" he said. \"If they try to stop peaceful protest then there is going to be violence.\"Sharif's power has been challenged in the prime minister's home city of Lahore, the capital of Punjab province. Violent supporters of Qadri have been fighting against police in cities across Punjab.Qadri enjoys the support of huge numbers of committed activists through his political party, the Pakistan Awami Tehreek (PAT) and his religious organisation, the Minhaj-ul-Quran. He has long called for revolution, claiming Pakistan's democratic structure is mired in corruption and must be swept away. In recent days his supporters have clashed with police near his office in an upmarket neighbourhood of Lahore where the city's authorities had attempted to stop activists commemorating the killing in June of 14 party workers during an earlier standoff with police.Qadri has promised his \"Green Revolution\" will see the immediate incarceration of government ministers and the introduction of a \"10-point revolutionary agenda\".Based for much of the time in Canada, he flew into Pakistan in June, when the government diverted his commercial flight to Lahore to prevent him landing in Islamabad where his supporters were waiting for him. On Sunday Qadri announced he would also lead a \"Revolution March\" of his supporters on Islamabad, although the PTI and PAT have not formally joined their efforts.On Sunday the police charged Qadri with murder, incitement to violence and treason after the death of a police constable who was wounded in confrontations in Lahore on Friday.", "tags": ["Imran Khan", "Pakistan", "Protest", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan protests: Islamabad prepares for anti-government demonstration"},{"date": "2014-07-17T14:39:25Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Afghan officials have accused Pakistan of letting Afghan militants escape a complex crackdown on insurgent hideouts, after a massive truck bomb killed dozens of civilians in a crowded bazaar earlier this week.The vehicle was packed with explosives across the border and driven into Afghanistan even as the Pakistani military battled to extend their control of North Waziristan beyond the administrative headquarters of Miran Shah, according to a spokesman for Afghanistan's intelligence agency, the National Directorate of Security.\"The Haqqani network was behind this attack,\" Abdul Haseeb Sadique said of the bombing on Tuesday. \"It was planned and designed in Miran Shah. The aim of this attack was to inflict maximum casualties, regardless of whether they were civilians or military.\"The Haqqani network is perhaps the wealthiest and most ruthless of several Taliban-linked groups that operate out of western Pakistan; much of their support comes from their home province, Khost.The Afghan government has long accused its neighbour's intelligence service of supporting insurgents with money, arms, advice and safe havens. Islamabad says the accusations are groundless and it has no control over areas that were ceded long ago to groups fighting their own state.Operation Zarb-e-Azb, a long-delayed effort to seize back the area from militant groups, began on 15 June. It has effectively emptied the area of civilians, with nearly a million fleeing within Pakistan and tens of thousands across the border into Afghanistan, raising worries that insurgents might be lying low among them.The Pakistani army insists that all insurgents will be targeted and says more than 400 have been killed so far, but a senior Afghan intelligence official said he was not aware of any Afghans among the dead or captured.\"Haqqani network has planned and has managed to organise such a large, spectacular intelligence-led operation inside Waziristan \u2026 coordinate the transport to Afghanistan, cross the border, come to the attack area and blow it up,\" the official said.\"It tells us a story that something is wrong, either the operation is a failure or there is an intention that the Haqqanis are not going to be the target.\" The official said he had reports of Haqqani leaders evacuated to safety and small \"safe havens\" set up for lower-level fighters to escape the crackdown.Tuesday's attack was far beyond the capacities of local Taliban, and fits with a pattern of similar assaults and attempted attacks by Haqqani fighters. Authorities have intercepted five truck bombs in the past 16 months, mostly heading for Kabul, and one other reached its target in a province just south of Kabul, killing dozens in an attack on the governor's compound.On 11 June another massive truck bomb was destroyed by a US drone just 20km north of Miran Shah as it was travelling the short distance to the Afghan border, from where insurgents can easily reach major provincial capitals.After just a month of operations, Pakistan does not yet fully control Waziristan, a large and partly mountainous region. However on Wednesday it was reported that leading Pakistani Taliban commander Adnan Rashid had been captured, although officials refused to confirm the arrest.While Pakistan has been accused of colluding with militants vying for power in Kabul, Rashid, a former air force technician, is regarded as an arch member of the \"bad Taliban\" that Islamabad wants to uproot because they target Pakistan.He was the mastermind of a 2003 suicide car bomb plot to kill former president Pervez Musharraf, and escaped from a prison near North Waziristan during a mass jailbreak organised by the Pakistani Taliban in 2012.The Pakistani government has also complained to Afghanistan that it is providing shelter to militants in its own lawless border regions, and requested their eviction. It was a demand that many in Kabul found ironic after years of making similar pleas to no effect in Islamabad.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Afghanistan accuses Pakistan of letting Haqqani militants escape crackdown"},{"date": "2014-07-14T06:45:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Journalists in Pakistan have agreed to reunite the three factions of their trades union, which separated some 36 years ago.The leaderships of all three splinter groups of the Pakistan Federal Union of Journalists (PFUJ) have agreed to form a unified organisation, reports Dawn.Given that the country's journalists are under life-threatening pressures from a variety of paramilitary gangs, plus certain sections within Pakistan's security forces, the reunification makes sense.The PFUJ's break-up began after the 1977 imposition of martial law by the late General Zia-ul-Haq. A group of largely right-wing journalists immediately left the PFUJ to form PFUJ-Dastoor.The PFUJ also faced a setback last year when two groups, one led by Afzal Butt and another by Pervaiz Shaukat, went their separate ways after disputed elections.But Dawn reports that the representatives of the three factions - Afzal Butt, Pervez Shoukat and Idrees Bakhtiar - have signed a unity memorandum. Mazhar Abbas, a former president of the PFUJ, said: \"Times are changing and now there is no alternative to unity.\"Idrees Bakhtiar said there was no major difference between the constitutions of the three factions. However, the three executive councils will need to give their approval to the deal agreed by their leaders. A final decision is expected on 30 August.The early signs, according to copies of emails copied to me, suggest there is enthusiastic grassroots support for the reunification.Source: Dawn", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan journalists' unions agree to reunite after 36 years"},{"date": "2014-09-26T14:36:38Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The family of a mentally ill Edinburgh man shot in a Pakistan prison have appealed to David Cameron to intervene in their father\u2019s case.Mohammad Asghar, 70, who was sentenced to death for blasphemy in January after writing letters claiming to be from the prophet Muhammad, was allegedly shot in the back by a prison guard at Adiala prison in Rawalpindi on Thursday morning. He remains in intensive care and his family believe that the next 48 hours will be critical to his personal safety.Speaking through tears at a press conference in Glasgow, Asghar\u2019s daughter Jasmine Rana said: \u201cWe are begging David Cameron and the whole British government to do everything they can to ensure that as soon as he is well enough to travel our father is brought back to the UK where he will be safe.\u201dAsghar was arrested in 2010 in Rawalpindi after a blasphemy complaint was brought against him by a tenant with whom he was having a dispute. The family\u2019s solicitor, Aamer Anwar, said that in court his lawyers were not allowed to present expert evidence that Asghar was suffering from severe paranoid schizophrenia and that he was unfit to stand trial even though he had been sectioned under the Mental Health Act in Edinburgh shortly before travelling to Pakistan.Rana expressed her frustration that the family had been told to remain publicly silent about her father\u2019s plight because of the sensitive nature of blasphemy cases.\u201cIt\u2019s not fair that we had to wait for something like this to happen for the case to be recognised.\u201d She added: \u201cMy dad is a father of five and a grandfather to nine. We all miss him desperately and just want him to come home.\u201dAnwar said: \u201cWe understand the sensitivity of these cases and that members of the Pakistani authorities have been subject to death threats if they deal with blasphemy cases. It will take real courage for someone in Pakistan to take hold of this case.\u201dHe said that the Foreign Office had given the family a stock response, which was no longer good enough: \u201cDavid Cameron is in parliament today talking about the plight of people in the Middle East. We expect him to take charge of the situation and do something about Mohammed Askhar who is a British citizen and likely to die.\u201dThe Scottish minister for external affairs and international development, Humza Yousaf, and a representative of the death row charity Reprieve met the governor of Punjab and the former Scottish Labour MP Mohammed Sarwar in July, when they were advised that Asghar\u2019s mental health was deteriorating rapidly. A deadline given to the Pakistani government at that meeting for urgent progress to be made has since expired.A Foreign Office spokesman said on Thursday: \u201cWe have raised our concerns with the local authorities at a senior level.\u201dA Scottish government spokesperson said: \u201cThe Scottish government remains concerned about Mr Asghar and our thoughts are with his family. We are monitoring the situation closely and are in contact with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and the NGO supporting Mr Ashgar and his family.\u201d", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Pakistan", "World news", "David Cameron", "Politics"], "title": "Family of man shot in Pakistan prison appeal to Cameron to intervene"},{"date": "2014-11-25T17:44:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An insurgent group known for its deadly attacks on US forces in Afghanistan has been targeted by Pakistani military aircraft in what is believed to be the first such strike on a group long accused of enjoying the secret backing of Pakistan\u2019s army.In what might herald a major shift in Pakistan\u2019s attitude to Afghanistan, military and intelligence officials said seven members of the Haqqani Network were among 20 militants killed by air strikes.Officials said the strikes, carried out by a jet and an attack helicopter, were launched against hideouts belonging to both the Haqqani Network and an allied group run by militant warlord Hafiz Gul Bahadur.The bases were in the Dattakhel area of North Waziristan, the tribal agency that for years has been a secure staging ground for militants launching attacks inside Afghanistan.Rahimullah Yousafzai, a veteran observer of the combustible borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan, cautioned that there was no way to verify whether the off-the-record claims made by intelligence officials were true.However, it was significant that they should want to take credit for killing Haqqani fighters.\u201cDefinitely if Haqqani Network people are killed that is really something the US and Afghan governments would like to hear,\u201d he said.Some of the Haqqani Network\u2019s daring and sophisticated attacks, including a day-long siege against the US embassy in Kabul, have been compared with special forces operations and enraged both Washington and Kabul. Last weekend, the bombing of a volleyball match in Afghanistan\u2019s Paktika province, which killed 57 spectators, was blamed by Afghan officials on the Haqqani Network.Even though Pakistan launched a major operation this summer to seize back control of North Waziristan, US officials were convinced the Haqqani Network was being spared while groups fighting against the Pakistani state were attacked.Earlier this month, an official report by the Pentagon accused Pakistan of using militant groups, including the Haqqani Network, as \u201cproxy forces to hedge against the loss of influence in Afghanistan and to counter India\u2019s superior military\u201d.Tuesday\u2019s development follows a dramatic thawing in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan, which culminated on 14 November with the visit of newly elected Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, to Islamabad]. Ghani claimed the talks had \u201covercome obstacles of 13 years in three days\u201d \u2013 a reference to the turbulent rule of his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, who deeply distrusted Pakistan.President Ghani made a series of major concessions to Pakistan, which Karzai always resisted, including an agreement to let Pakistan train and equip some Afghan soldiers.Islamabad, with its longstanding desire to limit the influence of arch-enemy India in Afghanistan, was also pleased by Ghani\u2019s decisions to turn down an offer of Indian military assistance.The two sides also agreed to set up a system to manage their joint border, a move Karzai resisted for fear of formally recognising the so-called Durand Line that Afghan nationalists claim gave away huge amounts of their territory when Britain drew it up in the 19th century.Diplomats say the Afghans also agreed to fight members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who have taken up sanctuary in eastern Afghanistan.On Tuesday, Pakistani intelligence sources also claimed that a US drone strike inside Afghan territory killed a number of TTP fighters and narrowly missed the movement\u2019s leader, Mullah Falzullah.Yousafzai said another reason for the targeting of Haqqani was its alliance with Hafiz Gul Bahadur, a militant leader who for years was protected by a formal pact with Pakistan in return for agreeing not to attack the state.The two sides have since fallen out and last week the group claimed responsibility for a deadly attack on security forces in Dattakhel that killed five soldiers including a senior officer.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Ashraf Ghani", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan air strikes target Haqqani insurgents"},{"date": "2014-11-25T17:44:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An insurgent group known for its deadly attacks on US forces in Afghanistan has been targeted by Pakistani military aircraft in what is believed to be the first such strike on a group long accused of enjoying the secret backing of Pakistan\u2019s army.In what might herald a major shift in Pakistan\u2019s attitude to Afghanistan, military and intelligence officials said seven members of the Haqqani Network were among 20 militants killed by air strikes.Officials said the strikes, carried out by a jet and an attack helicopter, were launched against hideouts belonging to both the Haqqani Network and an allied group run by militant warlord Hafiz Gul Bahadur.The bases were in the Dattakhel area of North Waziristan, the tribal agency that for years has been a secure staging ground for militants launching attacks inside Afghanistan.Rahimullah Yousafzai, a veteran observer of the combustible borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan, cautioned that there was no way to verify whether the off-the-record claims made by intelligence officials were true.However, it was significant that they should want to take credit for killing Haqqani fighters.\u201cDefinitely if Haqqani Network people are killed that is really something the US and Afghan governments would like to hear,\u201d he said.Some of the Haqqani Network\u2019s daring and sophisticated attacks, including a day-long siege against the US embassy in Kabul, have been compared with special forces operations and enraged both Washington and Kabul. Last weekend, the bombing of a volleyball match in Afghanistan\u2019s Paktika province, which killed 57 spectators, was blamed by Afghan officials on the Haqqani Network.Even though Pakistan launched a major operation this summer to seize back control of North Waziristan, US officials were convinced the Haqqani Network was being spared while groups fighting against the Pakistani state were attacked.Earlier this month, an official report by the Pentagon accused Pakistan of using militant groups, including the Haqqani Network, as \u201cproxy forces to hedge against the loss of influence in Afghanistan and to counter India\u2019s superior military\u201d.Tuesday\u2019s development follows a dramatic thawing in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan, which culminated on 14 November with the visit of newly elected Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, to Islamabad]. Ghani claimed the talks had \u201covercome obstacles of 13 years in three days\u201d \u2013 a reference to the turbulent rule of his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, who deeply distrusted Pakistan.President Ghani made a series of major concessions to Pakistan, which Karzai always resisted, including an agreement to let Pakistan train and equip some Afghan soldiers.Islamabad, with its longstanding desire to limit the influence of arch-enemy India in Afghanistan, was also pleased by Ghani\u2019s decisions to turn down an offer of Indian military assistance.The two sides also agreed to set up a system to manage their joint border, a move Karzai resisted for fear of formally recognising the so-called Durand Line that Afghan nationalists claim gave away huge amounts of their territory when Britain drew it up in the 19th century.Diplomats say the Afghans also agreed to fight members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who have taken up sanctuary in eastern Afghanistan.On Tuesday, Pakistani intelligence sources also claimed that a US drone strike inside Afghan territory killed a number of TTP fighters and narrowly missed the movement\u2019s leader, Mullah Falzullah.Yousafzai said another reason for the targeting of Haqqani was its alliance with Hafiz Gul Bahadur, a militant leader who for years was protected by a formal pact with Pakistan in return for agreeing not to attack the state.The two sides have since fallen out and last week the group claimed responsibility for a deadly attack on security forces in Dattakhel that killed five soldiers including a senior officer.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Ashraf Ghani", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan air strikes target Haqqani insurgents"},{"date": "2014-11-14T23:33:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\u2018We nearly died getting this story,\u201d Alixandra Fazzina tells me calmly. The war artist turned award-winning photographer is flicking through the haunting images she took during her five years in Pakistan. Despite covering countries such as Somalia and Yemen \u2013 and being held hostage for four days by militiamen in Liberia \u2013 Fazzina says Pakistan is the most difficult place she has worked. And it is only now she has left that she can safely reveal many of the stories people told her.She is lingering over a picture of an 82-year-old woman praying. Sajda, she says, was tortured by the Pakistani army. Her village, close to the Afghan border, was on the frontline of the Taliban insurgency in the Swat valley, and when the fighting engulfed her home, the elderly woman was too frail to escape. \u201cShe had two bullet holes in her,\u201d Fazzina says, \u201cbut couldn\u2019t leave to see a doctor.\u201d When the 2009 military offensive against the Taliban began, Sajda was arrested by the army, who believed her son had joined the Taliban. Her home was destroyed and she was detained for seven months. \u201cShe was tortured,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cWe saw the marks on her back.\u201dThe photographer found her after being tipped off by a network of human rights lawyers and trekking to her remote village, accompanied by a young female translator. Dressed in a burqa and speaking only a little Pashto, Fazzina managed to disguise the fact that she was a foreigner, but the presence of two strangers still attracted attention in the isolated community. \u201cI think it\u2019s only because we were two women that we got away with being there,\u201d she says.But when night fell, they found themselves surrounded. \u201cIt was getting dark when the gunmen came,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cThere were probably about 40 or 50 of them.\u201dThe men watched the pair from the roofs of surrounding houses as they hurriedly left. \u201cWe had to walk away from the house with all these guns pointed at our backs,\u201d Fazzina remembers. \u201cWe thought we were going to get shot, but we didn\u2019t want to run in case it raised suspicion. My translator was praying the whole way.\u201dAfter walking across a valley and crossing a river, they finally reached their car and driver, whom they had left on a narrow mountain road. \u201cA military patrol came past and we thought, \u2018Phew, we are safe,\u2019\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cBut the next minute, insurgents with guns came out from behind the rocks and tried to stop the car as we sped away.\u201dIt was not her first brush with the Taliban. She points to a picture of two women in abayas, taken outside Al Asif Square in Karachi, a Taliban stronghold. She started photographing Afghan refugees there soon after arriving in Pakistan. \u201cApparently they had a meeting about me,\u201d Fazzina says as she describes being followed by Kalashnikov-wielding gunmen with kohl-rimmed eyes. \u201cThey said, \u2018Should we kidnap her? Shall we kill her?\u2019\u201d In the end, she says, \u201cthey obviously thought I was harmless\u201d.It\u2019s a mistake often made about the slight 40-year-old mother of one, and one she has come to rely on for protection. She is drawn to the stories of people caught up in conflicts, often ones that have been largely ignored by the rest of the world. This is why she was interested in Pakistan: the military conflict launched against insurgents there has barely registered with the outside world.On top of all this is the fear of crime \u2013kidnapping, for instance, is big business in Pakistan. Yet Fazzina counters these dangers not with armoured vehicles or bodyguards, but by remaining under the radar. She tells me (somewhat reluctantly) about a \u201cdressing-up box\u201d of clothes that, along with careful attention to local fashions and body language, help her to blend in. The quiet, personal nature of many of her photographs is testament to the hours she spends building a relationship with her subjects, through conversations and \u201cendless cups of tea\u201d; she followed some families for the whole five years she was in Pakistan. She talks with gratitude and admiration of her translator, Hina, who, with a PhD in human rights law, was as determined as Fazzina to tell the stories of the women they met.Her focus was on the women of Pakistan, she says, because they are often the most vulnerable to the upheavals caused by war and conflict. The army\u2019s 2009 offensive in the Swat valley resulted in the world\u2019s largest movement of refugees since the Rwandan genocide. As almost 3 million people fled, Fazzina heard stories of the mass kidnappings of 200 women. \u201cIt transpired this was as brides for Taliban fighters,\u201d she says. \u201cIt was very similar to what\u2019s going on in Iraq at the moment.\u201dDetermined to let the world know about the news, Fazzina tracked down some of the families whose girls had been taken, but found no one willing to talk. \u201cI have done stories about the rape of women in Afghanistan, but there it was reasonably easy to talk to the women because they thought it was an atrocity.\u201d In Pakistan, it was much more difficult, she says, because of conservative views about women\u2019s honour. \u201cOnce they talk about it, everyone knows and their family will not be able to get them married.\u201dEventually, after hearing of the death of a Taliban commander she knew had been involved in the kidnappings, she managed to track down his teenage widow. \u201cShe was a lovely, bubbly young girl, just a cool teenager, who had been going to school,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cShe said this marriage had screwed up her life. After the drone strike that killed her husband, she escaped. She wanted to go back to school, but she had a baby. She would never be able to marry again and she was only 16.\u201dFazzina believes the psychological trauma of the insurgency has taken a severe toll on Pakistan. \u201cI saw the country fall apart in the time I was there. It\u2019s like the whole country had gone silent. The Taliban have won in a lot of respects.\u201dDespite this, she says she would have remained in Pakistan if a crackdown against foreign NGOs and journalists had not seen her visa renewal refused. \u201cI fell in love with Pakistan,\u201d she says, simply. \u201cI don\u2019t think I have been anywhere that I have loved working so much. We were met with so much warmth. Despite everything, the people there have so much strength. Now when I watch the news from Pakistan, it breaks my heart that I am not there.\u201d\u2022 To hear Alixandra Fazzina talk more about her images from Pakistan, go to theguardian.com/video\u2022 This article was amended on 15 November 2014 to remove inaccuracies relating to music and a haram declaration, and personal material at the request of the subject.", "tags": ["Global development", "Pakistan", "Pakistan floods", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Women", "Life and style", "War reporting"], "title": "Caught in conflict: women in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-11-25T17:44:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An insurgent group known for its deadly attacks on US forces in Afghanistan has been targeted by Pakistani military aircraft in what is believed to be the first such strike on a group long accused of enjoying the secret backing of Pakistan\u2019s army.In what might herald a major shift in Pakistan\u2019s attitude to Afghanistan, military and intelligence officials said seven members of the Haqqani Network were among 20 militants killed by air strikes.Officials said the strikes, carried out by a jet and an attack helicopter, were launched against hideouts belonging to both the Haqqani Network and an allied group run by militant warlord Hafiz Gul Bahadur.The bases were in the Dattakhel area of North Waziristan, the tribal agency that for years has been a secure staging ground for militants launching attacks inside Afghanistan.Rahimullah Yousafzai, a veteran observer of the combustible borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan, cautioned that there was no way to verify whether the off-the-record claims made by intelligence officials were true.However, it was significant that they should want to take credit for killing Haqqani fighters.\u201cDefinitely if Haqqani Network people are killed that is really something the US and Afghan governments would like to hear,\u201d he said.Some of the Haqqani Network\u2019s daring and sophisticated attacks, including a day-long siege against the US embassy in Kabul, have been compared with special forces operations and enraged both Washington and Kabul. Last weekend, the bombing of a volleyball match in Afghanistan\u2019s Paktika province, which killed 57 spectators, was blamed by Afghan officials on the Haqqani Network.Even though Pakistan launched a major operation this summer to seize back control of North Waziristan, US officials were convinced the Haqqani Network was being spared while groups fighting against the Pakistani state were attacked.Earlier this month, an official report by the Pentagon accused Pakistan of using militant groups, including the Haqqani Network, as \u201cproxy forces to hedge against the loss of influence in Afghanistan and to counter India\u2019s superior military\u201d.Tuesday\u2019s development follows a dramatic thawing in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan, which culminated on 14 November with the visit of newly elected Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, to Islamabad]. Ghani claimed the talks had \u201covercome obstacles of 13 years in three days\u201d \u2013 a reference to the turbulent rule of his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, who deeply distrusted Pakistan.President Ghani made a series of major concessions to Pakistan, which Karzai always resisted, including an agreement to let Pakistan train and equip some Afghan soldiers.Islamabad, with its longstanding desire to limit the influence of arch-enemy India in Afghanistan, was also pleased by Ghani\u2019s decisions to turn down an offer of Indian military assistance.The two sides also agreed to set up a system to manage their joint border, a move Karzai resisted for fear of formally recognising the so-called Durand Line that Afghan nationalists claim gave away huge amounts of their territory when Britain drew it up in the 19th century.Diplomats say the Afghans also agreed to fight members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who have taken up sanctuary in eastern Afghanistan.On Tuesday, Pakistani intelligence sources also claimed that a US drone strike inside Afghan territory killed a number of TTP fighters and narrowly missed the movement\u2019s leader, Mullah Falzullah.Yousafzai said another reason for the targeting of Haqqani was its alliance with Hafiz Gul Bahadur, a militant leader who for years was protected by a formal pact with Pakistan in return for agreeing not to attack the state.The two sides have since fallen out and last week the group claimed responsibility for a deadly attack on security forces in Dattakhel that killed five soldiers including a senior officer.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Ashraf Ghani", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan air strikes target Haqqani insurgents"},{"date": "2014-11-14T23:33:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\u2018We nearly died getting this story,\u201d Alixandra Fazzina tells me calmly. The war artist turned award-winning photographer is flicking through the haunting images she took during her five years in Pakistan. Despite covering countries such as Somalia and Yemen \u2013 and being held hostage for four days by militiamen in Liberia \u2013 Fazzina says Pakistan is the most difficult place she has worked. And it is only now she has left that she can safely reveal many of the stories people told her.She is lingering over a picture of an 82-year-old woman praying. Sajda, she says, was tortured by the Pakistani army. Her village, close to the Afghan border, was on the frontline of the Taliban insurgency in the Swat valley, and when the fighting engulfed her home, the elderly woman was too frail to escape. \u201cShe had two bullet holes in her,\u201d Fazzina says, \u201cbut couldn\u2019t leave to see a doctor.\u201d When the 2009 military offensive against the Taliban began, Sajda was arrested by the army, who believed her son had joined the Taliban. Her home was destroyed and she was detained for seven months. \u201cShe was tortured,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cWe saw the marks on her back.\u201dThe photographer found her after being tipped off by a network of human rights lawyers and trekking to her remote village, accompanied by a young female translator. Dressed in a burqa and speaking only a little Pashto, Fazzina managed to disguise the fact that she was a foreigner, but the presence of two strangers still attracted attention in the isolated community. \u201cI think it\u2019s only because we were two women that we got away with being there,\u201d she says.But when night fell, they found themselves surrounded. \u201cIt was getting dark when the gunmen came,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cThere were probably about 40 or 50 of them.\u201dThe men watched the pair from the roofs of surrounding houses as they hurriedly left. \u201cWe had to walk away from the house with all these guns pointed at our backs,\u201d Fazzina remembers. \u201cWe thought we were going to get shot, but we didn\u2019t want to run in case it raised suspicion. My translator was praying the whole way.\u201dAfter walking across a valley and crossing a river, they finally reached their car and driver, whom they had left on a narrow mountain road. \u201cA military patrol came past and we thought, \u2018Phew, we are safe,\u2019\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cBut the next minute, insurgents with guns came out from behind the rocks and tried to stop the car as we sped away.\u201dIt was not her first brush with the Taliban. She points to a picture of two women in abayas, taken outside Al Asif Square in Karachi, a Taliban stronghold. She started photographing Afghan refugees there soon after arriving in Pakistan. \u201cApparently they had a meeting about me,\u201d Fazzina says as she describes being followed by Kalashnikov-wielding gunmen with kohl-rimmed eyes. \u201cThey said, \u2018Should we kidnap her? Shall we kill her?\u2019\u201d In the end, she says, \u201cthey obviously thought I was harmless\u201d.It\u2019s a mistake often made about the slight 40-year-old mother of one, and one she has come to rely on for protection. She is drawn to the stories of people caught up in conflicts, often ones that have been largely ignored by the rest of the world. This is why she was interested in Pakistan: the military conflict launched against insurgents there has barely registered with the outside world.On top of all this is the fear of crime \u2013kidnapping, for instance, is big business in Pakistan. Yet Fazzina counters these dangers not with armoured vehicles or bodyguards, but by remaining under the radar. She tells me (somewhat reluctantly) about a \u201cdressing-up box\u201d of clothes that, along with careful attention to local fashions and body language, help her to blend in. The quiet, personal nature of many of her photographs is testament to the hours she spends building a relationship with her subjects, through conversations and \u201cendless cups of tea\u201d; she followed some families for the whole five years she was in Pakistan. She talks with gratitude and admiration of her translator, Hina, who, with a PhD in human rights law, was as determined as Fazzina to tell the stories of the women they met.Her focus was on the women of Pakistan, she says, because they are often the most vulnerable to the upheavals caused by war and conflict. The army\u2019s 2009 offensive in the Swat valley resulted in the world\u2019s largest movement of refugees since the Rwandan genocide. As almost 3 million people fled, Fazzina heard stories of the mass kidnappings of 200 women. \u201cIt transpired this was as brides for Taliban fighters,\u201d she says. \u201cIt was very similar to what\u2019s going on in Iraq at the moment.\u201dDetermined to let the world know about the news, Fazzina tracked down some of the families whose girls had been taken, but found no one willing to talk. \u201cI have done stories about the rape of women in Afghanistan, but there it was reasonably easy to talk to the women because they thought it was an atrocity.\u201d In Pakistan, it was much more difficult, she says, because of conservative views about women\u2019s honour. \u201cOnce they talk about it, everyone knows and their family will not be able to get them married.\u201dEventually, after hearing of the death of a Taliban commander she knew had been involved in the kidnappings, she managed to track down his teenage widow. \u201cShe was a lovely, bubbly young girl, just a cool teenager, who had been going to school,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cShe said this marriage had screwed up her life. After the drone strike that killed her husband, she escaped. She wanted to go back to school, but she had a baby. She would never be able to marry again and she was only 16.\u201dFazzina believes the psychological trauma of the insurgency has taken a severe toll on Pakistan. \u201cI saw the country fall apart in the time I was there. It\u2019s like the whole country had gone silent. The Taliban have won in a lot of respects.\u201dDespite this, she says she would have remained in Pakistan if a crackdown against foreign NGOs and journalists had not seen her visa renewal refused. \u201cI fell in love with Pakistan,\u201d she says, simply. \u201cI don\u2019t think I have been anywhere that I have loved working so much. We were met with so much warmth. Despite everything, the people there have so much strength. Now when I watch the news from Pakistan, it breaks my heart that I am not there.\u201d\u2022 To hear Alixandra Fazzina talk more about her images from Pakistan, go to theguardian.com/video\u2022 This article was amended on 15 November 2014 to remove inaccuracies relating to music and a haram declaration, and personal material at the request of the subject.", "tags": ["Global development", "Pakistan", "Pakistan floods", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Women", "Life and style", "War reporting"], "title": "Caught in conflict: women in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-11-14T12:30:50Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The photojournalist Alixandra Fazzina has been collecting stories and photographs of women surviving conflict on the borders and in the cities of Pakistan for five years. The film of Alixandra\u2019s experiences is her view of Pakistan \u2013 and we would now like to find out perspectives of other people living and working there. Show us the Pakistan that we don\u2019t often see. Perhaps it\u2019s the extraordinary landscape or parts of cities that tourists don\u2019t often visit. We\u2019d also like you to tell us about your experiences of Pakistan, are they very different from what\u2019s shown in the media?It\u2019s important to take care when recording and sharing your content, as these images will be public on the GuardianWitness site. We understand that there may be cultural considerations in sharing photographs and videos , so please ensure that the content you upload isn\u2019t considered offensive to anyone in your community. You can share your photos, videos and perspectives by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pakistan holidays", "Asia"], "title": "Living in Pakistan: share your perspectives"},{"date": "2014-11-25T17:44:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An insurgent group known for its deadly attacks on US forces in Afghanistan has been targeted by Pakistani military aircraft in what is believed to be the first such strike on a group long accused of enjoying the secret backing of Pakistan\u2019s army.In what might herald a major shift in Pakistan\u2019s attitude to Afghanistan, military and intelligence officials said seven members of the Haqqani Network were among 20 militants killed by air strikes.Officials said the strikes, carried out by a jet and an attack helicopter, were launched against hideouts belonging to both the Haqqani Network and an allied group run by militant warlord Hafiz Gul Bahadur.The bases were in the Dattakhel area of North Waziristan, the tribal agency that for years has been a secure staging ground for militants launching attacks inside Afghanistan.Rahimullah Yousafzai, a veteran observer of the combustible borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan, cautioned that there was no way to verify whether the off-the-record claims made by intelligence officials were true.However, it was significant that they should want to take credit for killing Haqqani fighters.\u201cDefinitely if Haqqani Network people are killed that is really something the US and Afghan governments would like to hear,\u201d he said.Some of the Haqqani Network\u2019s daring and sophisticated attacks, including a day-long siege against the US embassy in Kabul, have been compared with special forces operations and enraged both Washington and Kabul. Last weekend, the bombing of a volleyball match in Afghanistan\u2019s Paktika province, which killed 57 spectators, was blamed by Afghan officials on the Haqqani Network.Even though Pakistan launched a major operation this summer to seize back control of North Waziristan, US officials were convinced the Haqqani Network was being spared while groups fighting against the Pakistani state were attacked.Earlier this month, an official report by the Pentagon accused Pakistan of using militant groups, including the Haqqani Network, as \u201cproxy forces to hedge against the loss of influence in Afghanistan and to counter India\u2019s superior military\u201d.Tuesday\u2019s development follows a dramatic thawing in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan, which culminated on 14 November with the visit of newly elected Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, to Islamabad]. Ghani claimed the talks had \u201covercome obstacles of 13 years in three days\u201d \u2013 a reference to the turbulent rule of his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, who deeply distrusted Pakistan.President Ghani made a series of major concessions to Pakistan, which Karzai always resisted, including an agreement to let Pakistan train and equip some Afghan soldiers.Islamabad, with its longstanding desire to limit the influence of arch-enemy India in Afghanistan, was also pleased by Ghani\u2019s decisions to turn down an offer of Indian military assistance.The two sides also agreed to set up a system to manage their joint border, a move Karzai resisted for fear of formally recognising the so-called Durand Line that Afghan nationalists claim gave away huge amounts of their territory when Britain drew it up in the 19th century.Diplomats say the Afghans also agreed to fight members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who have taken up sanctuary in eastern Afghanistan.On Tuesday, Pakistani intelligence sources also claimed that a US drone strike inside Afghan territory killed a number of TTP fighters and narrowly missed the movement\u2019s leader, Mullah Falzullah.Yousafzai said another reason for the targeting of Haqqani was its alliance with Hafiz Gul Bahadur, a militant leader who for years was protected by a formal pact with Pakistan in return for agreeing not to attack the state.The two sides have since fallen out and last week the group claimed responsibility for a deadly attack on security forces in Dattakhel that killed five soldiers including a senior officer.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Ashraf Ghani", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan air strikes target Haqqani insurgents"},{"date": "2014-11-14T23:33:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\u2018We nearly died getting this story,\u201d Alixandra Fazzina tells me calmly. The war artist turned award-winning photographer is flicking through the haunting images she took during her five years in Pakistan. Despite covering countries such as Somalia and Yemen \u2013 and being held hostage for four days by militiamen in Liberia \u2013 Fazzina says Pakistan is the most difficult place she has worked. And it is only now she has left that she can safely reveal many of the stories people told her.She is lingering over a picture of an 82-year-old woman praying. Sajda, she says, was tortured by the Pakistani army. Her village, close to the Afghan border, was on the frontline of the Taliban insurgency in the Swat valley, and when the fighting engulfed her home, the elderly woman was too frail to escape. \u201cShe had two bullet holes in her,\u201d Fazzina says, \u201cbut couldn\u2019t leave to see a doctor.\u201d When the 2009 military offensive against the Taliban began, Sajda was arrested by the army, who believed her son had joined the Taliban. Her home was destroyed and she was detained for seven months. \u201cShe was tortured,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cWe saw the marks on her back.\u201dThe photographer found her after being tipped off by a network of human rights lawyers and trekking to her remote village, accompanied by a young female translator. Dressed in a burqa and speaking only a little Pashto, Fazzina managed to disguise the fact that she was a foreigner, but the presence of two strangers still attracted attention in the isolated community. \u201cI think it\u2019s only because we were two women that we got away with being there,\u201d she says.But when night fell, they found themselves surrounded. \u201cIt was getting dark when the gunmen came,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cThere were probably about 40 or 50 of them.\u201dThe men watched the pair from the roofs of surrounding houses as they hurriedly left. \u201cWe had to walk away from the house with all these guns pointed at our backs,\u201d Fazzina remembers. \u201cWe thought we were going to get shot, but we didn\u2019t want to run in case it raised suspicion. My translator was praying the whole way.\u201dAfter walking across a valley and crossing a river, they finally reached their car and driver, whom they had left on a narrow mountain road. \u201cA military patrol came past and we thought, \u2018Phew, we are safe,\u2019\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cBut the next minute, insurgents with guns came out from behind the rocks and tried to stop the car as we sped away.\u201dIt was not her first brush with the Taliban. She points to a picture of two women in abayas, taken outside Al Asif Square in Karachi, a Taliban stronghold. She started photographing Afghan refugees there soon after arriving in Pakistan. \u201cApparently they had a meeting about me,\u201d Fazzina says as she describes being followed by Kalashnikov-wielding gunmen with kohl-rimmed eyes. \u201cThey said, \u2018Should we kidnap her? Shall we kill her?\u2019\u201d In the end, she says, \u201cthey obviously thought I was harmless\u201d.It\u2019s a mistake often made about the slight 40-year-old mother of one, and one she has come to rely on for protection. She is drawn to the stories of people caught up in conflicts, often ones that have been largely ignored by the rest of the world. This is why she was interested in Pakistan: the military conflict launched against insurgents there has barely registered with the outside world.On top of all this is the fear of crime \u2013kidnapping, for instance, is big business in Pakistan. Yet Fazzina counters these dangers not with armoured vehicles or bodyguards, but by remaining under the radar. She tells me (somewhat reluctantly) about a \u201cdressing-up box\u201d of clothes that, along with careful attention to local fashions and body language, help her to blend in. The quiet, personal nature of many of her photographs is testament to the hours she spends building a relationship with her subjects, through conversations and \u201cendless cups of tea\u201d; she followed some families for the whole five years she was in Pakistan. She talks with gratitude and admiration of her translator, Hina, who, with a PhD in human rights law, was as determined as Fazzina to tell the stories of the women they met.Her focus was on the women of Pakistan, she says, because they are often the most vulnerable to the upheavals caused by war and conflict. The army\u2019s 2009 offensive in the Swat valley resulted in the world\u2019s largest movement of refugees since the Rwandan genocide. As almost 3 million people fled, Fazzina heard stories of the mass kidnappings of 200 women. \u201cIt transpired this was as brides for Taliban fighters,\u201d she says. \u201cIt was very similar to what\u2019s going on in Iraq at the moment.\u201dDetermined to let the world know about the news, Fazzina tracked down some of the families whose girls had been taken, but found no one willing to talk. \u201cI have done stories about the rape of women in Afghanistan, but there it was reasonably easy to talk to the women because they thought it was an atrocity.\u201d In Pakistan, it was much more difficult, she says, because of conservative views about women\u2019s honour. \u201cOnce they talk about it, everyone knows and their family will not be able to get them married.\u201dEventually, after hearing of the death of a Taliban commander she knew had been involved in the kidnappings, she managed to track down his teenage widow. \u201cShe was a lovely, bubbly young girl, just a cool teenager, who had been going to school,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cShe said this marriage had screwed up her life. After the drone strike that killed her husband, she escaped. She wanted to go back to school, but she had a baby. She would never be able to marry again and she was only 16.\u201dFazzina believes the psychological trauma of the insurgency has taken a severe toll on Pakistan. \u201cI saw the country fall apart in the time I was there. It\u2019s like the whole country had gone silent. The Taliban have won in a lot of respects.\u201dDespite this, she says she would have remained in Pakistan if a crackdown against foreign NGOs and journalists had not seen her visa renewal refused. \u201cI fell in love with Pakistan,\u201d she says, simply. \u201cI don\u2019t think I have been anywhere that I have loved working so much. We were met with so much warmth. Despite everything, the people there have so much strength. Now when I watch the news from Pakistan, it breaks my heart that I am not there.\u201d\u2022 To hear Alixandra Fazzina talk more about her images from Pakistan, go to theguardian.com/video\u2022 This article was amended on 15 November 2014 to remove inaccuracies relating to music and a haram declaration, and personal material at the request of the subject.", "tags": ["Global development", "Pakistan", "Pakistan floods", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Women", "Life and style", "War reporting"], "title": "Caught in conflict: women in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-11-14T12:30:50Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The photojournalist Alixandra Fazzina has been collecting stories and photographs of women surviving conflict on the borders and in the cities of Pakistan for five years. The film of Alixandra\u2019s experiences is her view of Pakistan \u2013 and we would now like to find out perspectives of other people living and working there. Show us the Pakistan that we don\u2019t often see. Perhaps it\u2019s the extraordinary landscape or parts of cities that tourists don\u2019t often visit. We\u2019d also like you to tell us about your experiences of Pakistan, are they very different from what\u2019s shown in the media?It\u2019s important to take care when recording and sharing your content, as these images will be public on the GuardianWitness site. We understand that there may be cultural considerations in sharing photographs and videos , so please ensure that the content you upload isn\u2019t considered offensive to anyone in your community. You can share your photos, videos and perspectives by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pakistan holidays", "Asia"], "title": "Living in Pakistan: share your perspectives"},{"date": "2014-12-21T23:39:35Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan continued its retribution against terrorists on Sunday with the execution of four more prisoners.The deaths followed the executions of two other convicted terrorists on Friday amid seething public anger at the massacre of 148 people in the city of Peshawar last week.Syed Babar Ali, the superintendent of the district jail in Faisalabad, confirmed that Ghulam Sarwar, Akhlaque Ahmed, Rasheed Mehmood and Zubair Ahmed had been executed in the afternoon. The men were convicted for their role in a 2003 attempt to assassinate former military leader Pervez Musharraf with suicide car bombs.Prime minister Nawaz Sharif decided to abandon a six year unofficial moratorium on executions following the attack on Army Public School in Peshawar, though the decision imperils an EU trade deal.With many Pakistanis demanding public executions for terrorists, public anger at the slaughter has outweighed other concerns amid fears militants may launch jail break operations against prisons.Last week some newspapers carried graphic front page pictures of the corpses of Mohammad Aqeel and Arshad Mehmood after they became the first civilians to be hanged since 2008.Human rights groups are alarmed by the development given the notorious shortcomings of the country\u2019s criminal justice system and the tendency to convict a wide range of criminals under terrorism legislation.On Tuesday a man called Shafqat Hussain is scheduled to be executed for kidnap and murder, though he was just 14 at the time he was sentenced and has since retracted his confession, which he says was made after nine days of police torture.Clive Stafford Smith, director of the UK legal charity Reprieve, said there was a \u201creal risk\u201d an innocent man may be executed.\u201cWhile the slaughter of innocents in Peshawar was utterly reprehensible, it hardly solves the problem to kill someone who had nothing to do with it,\u201d he said.Research by Reprieve and the Justice Pakistan Project has found Pakistan\u2019s sweeping counter-terror laws have been abused in order to secure prosecutions. The report estimates that nearly 90% of those sentenced under terrorism laws \u201chad nothing to do with terror at all\u201d.\u201cInstead of being reserved for the most serious cases of recognisable acts of terror, the anti-terror legislation is in fact being used to try ordinary criminal cases,\u201d the report said.\u201cEither in a deliberate attempt to evade the procedural safeguards guaranteed by ordinary courts or due to the vague and overly broad definitions of \u2018terrorism\u2019 in the legislation.\u201dHuman Rights Watch also called for executions to be halted.\u201cPakistan\u2019s government has chosen to indulge in vengeful blood-lust instead of finding and prosecuting those responsible for the horrific Peshawar attack,\u201d said Phelim Kine of Human Rights Watch.\u201cThe government\u2019s death penalty spree is a craven politicized reaction to the Peshawar killings that will do nothing to bring the attackers to justice.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Human rights", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan hangs four more prisoners as execution campaign widens"},{"date": "2014-11-25T17:44:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An insurgent group known for its deadly attacks on US forces in Afghanistan has been targeted by Pakistani military aircraft in what is believed to be the first such strike on a group long accused of enjoying the secret backing of Pakistan\u2019s army.In what might herald a major shift in Pakistan\u2019s attitude to Afghanistan, military and intelligence officials said seven members of the Haqqani Network were among 20 militants killed by air strikes.Officials said the strikes, carried out by a jet and an attack helicopter, were launched against hideouts belonging to both the Haqqani Network and an allied group run by militant warlord Hafiz Gul Bahadur.The bases were in the Dattakhel area of North Waziristan, the tribal agency that for years has been a secure staging ground for militants launching attacks inside Afghanistan.Rahimullah Yousafzai, a veteran observer of the combustible borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan, cautioned that there was no way to verify whether the off-the-record claims made by intelligence officials were true.However, it was significant that they should want to take credit for killing Haqqani fighters.\u201cDefinitely if Haqqani Network people are killed that is really something the US and Afghan governments would like to hear,\u201d he said.Some of the Haqqani Network\u2019s daring and sophisticated attacks, including a day-long siege against the US embassy in Kabul, have been compared with special forces operations and enraged both Washington and Kabul. Last weekend, the bombing of a volleyball match in Afghanistan\u2019s Paktika province, which killed 57 spectators, was blamed by Afghan officials on the Haqqani Network.Even though Pakistan launched a major operation this summer to seize back control of North Waziristan, US officials were convinced the Haqqani Network was being spared while groups fighting against the Pakistani state were attacked.Earlier this month, an official report by the Pentagon accused Pakistan of using militant groups, including the Haqqani Network, as \u201cproxy forces to hedge against the loss of influence in Afghanistan and to counter India\u2019s superior military\u201d.Tuesday\u2019s development follows a dramatic thawing in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan, which culminated on 14 November with the visit of newly elected Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, to Islamabad]. Ghani claimed the talks had \u201covercome obstacles of 13 years in three days\u201d \u2013 a reference to the turbulent rule of his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, who deeply distrusted Pakistan.President Ghani made a series of major concessions to Pakistan, which Karzai always resisted, including an agreement to let Pakistan train and equip some Afghan soldiers.Islamabad, with its longstanding desire to limit the influence of arch-enemy India in Afghanistan, was also pleased by Ghani\u2019s decisions to turn down an offer of Indian military assistance.The two sides also agreed to set up a system to manage their joint border, a move Karzai resisted for fear of formally recognising the so-called Durand Line that Afghan nationalists claim gave away huge amounts of their territory when Britain drew it up in the 19th century.Diplomats say the Afghans also agreed to fight members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who have taken up sanctuary in eastern Afghanistan.On Tuesday, Pakistani intelligence sources also claimed that a US drone strike inside Afghan territory killed a number of TTP fighters and narrowly missed the movement\u2019s leader, Mullah Falzullah.Yousafzai said another reason for the targeting of Haqqani was its alliance with Hafiz Gul Bahadur, a militant leader who for years was protected by a formal pact with Pakistan in return for agreeing not to attack the state.The two sides have since fallen out and last week the group claimed responsibility for a deadly attack on security forces in Dattakhel that killed five soldiers including a senior officer.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Ashraf Ghani", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan air strikes target Haqqani insurgents"},{"date": "2014-11-14T23:33:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\u2018We nearly died getting this story,\u201d Alixandra Fazzina tells me calmly. The war artist turned award-winning photographer is flicking through the haunting images she took during her five years in Pakistan. Despite covering countries such as Somalia and Yemen \u2013 and being held hostage for four days by militiamen in Liberia \u2013 Fazzina says Pakistan is the most difficult place she has worked. And it is only now she has left that she can safely reveal many of the stories people told her.She is lingering over a picture of an 82-year-old woman praying. Sajda, she says, was tortured by the Pakistani army. Her village, close to the Afghan border, was on the frontline of the Taliban insurgency in the Swat valley, and when the fighting engulfed her home, the elderly woman was too frail to escape. \u201cShe had two bullet holes in her,\u201d Fazzina says, \u201cbut couldn\u2019t leave to see a doctor.\u201d When the 2009 military offensive against the Taliban began, Sajda was arrested by the army, who believed her son had joined the Taliban. Her home was destroyed and she was detained for seven months. \u201cShe was tortured,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cWe saw the marks on her back.\u201dThe photographer found her after being tipped off by a network of human rights lawyers and trekking to her remote village, accompanied by a young female translator. Dressed in a burqa and speaking only a little Pashto, Fazzina managed to disguise the fact that she was a foreigner, but the presence of two strangers still attracted attention in the isolated community. \u201cI think it\u2019s only because we were two women that we got away with being there,\u201d she says.But when night fell, they found themselves surrounded. \u201cIt was getting dark when the gunmen came,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cThere were probably about 40 or 50 of them.\u201dThe men watched the pair from the roofs of surrounding houses as they hurriedly left. \u201cWe had to walk away from the house with all these guns pointed at our backs,\u201d Fazzina remembers. \u201cWe thought we were going to get shot, but we didn\u2019t want to run in case it raised suspicion. My translator was praying the whole way.\u201dAfter walking across a valley and crossing a river, they finally reached their car and driver, whom they had left on a narrow mountain road. \u201cA military patrol came past and we thought, \u2018Phew, we are safe,\u2019\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cBut the next minute, insurgents with guns came out from behind the rocks and tried to stop the car as we sped away.\u201dIt was not her first brush with the Taliban. She points to a picture of two women in abayas, taken outside Al Asif Square in Karachi, a Taliban stronghold. She started photographing Afghan refugees there soon after arriving in Pakistan. \u201cApparently they had a meeting about me,\u201d Fazzina says as she describes being followed by Kalashnikov-wielding gunmen with kohl-rimmed eyes. \u201cThey said, \u2018Should we kidnap her? Shall we kill her?\u2019\u201d In the end, she says, \u201cthey obviously thought I was harmless\u201d.It\u2019s a mistake often made about the slight 40-year-old mother of one, and one she has come to rely on for protection. She is drawn to the stories of people caught up in conflicts, often ones that have been largely ignored by the rest of the world. This is why she was interested in Pakistan: the military conflict launched against insurgents there has barely registered with the outside world.On top of all this is the fear of crime \u2013kidnapping, for instance, is big business in Pakistan. Yet Fazzina counters these dangers not with armoured vehicles or bodyguards, but by remaining under the radar. She tells me (somewhat reluctantly) about a \u201cdressing-up box\u201d of clothes that, along with careful attention to local fashions and body language, help her to blend in. The quiet, personal nature of many of her photographs is testament to the hours she spends building a relationship with her subjects, through conversations and \u201cendless cups of tea\u201d; she followed some families for the whole five years she was in Pakistan. She talks with gratitude and admiration of her translator, Hina, who, with a PhD in human rights law, was as determined as Fazzina to tell the stories of the women they met.Her focus was on the women of Pakistan, she says, because they are often the most vulnerable to the upheavals caused by war and conflict. The army\u2019s 2009 offensive in the Swat valley resulted in the world\u2019s largest movement of refugees since the Rwandan genocide. As almost 3 million people fled, Fazzina heard stories of the mass kidnappings of 200 women. \u201cIt transpired this was as brides for Taliban fighters,\u201d she says. \u201cIt was very similar to what\u2019s going on in Iraq at the moment.\u201dDetermined to let the world know about the news, Fazzina tracked down some of the families whose girls had been taken, but found no one willing to talk. \u201cI have done stories about the rape of women in Afghanistan, but there it was reasonably easy to talk to the women because they thought it was an atrocity.\u201d In Pakistan, it was much more difficult, she says, because of conservative views about women\u2019s honour. \u201cOnce they talk about it, everyone knows and their family will not be able to get them married.\u201dEventually, after hearing of the death of a Taliban commander she knew had been involved in the kidnappings, she managed to track down his teenage widow. \u201cShe was a lovely, bubbly young girl, just a cool teenager, who had been going to school,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cShe said this marriage had screwed up her life. After the drone strike that killed her husband, she escaped. She wanted to go back to school, but she had a baby. She would never be able to marry again and she was only 16.\u201dFazzina believes the psychological trauma of the insurgency has taken a severe toll on Pakistan. \u201cI saw the country fall apart in the time I was there. It\u2019s like the whole country had gone silent. The Taliban have won in a lot of respects.\u201dDespite this, she says she would have remained in Pakistan if a crackdown against foreign NGOs and journalists had not seen her visa renewal refused. \u201cI fell in love with Pakistan,\u201d she says, simply. \u201cI don\u2019t think I have been anywhere that I have loved working so much. We were met with so much warmth. Despite everything, the people there have so much strength. Now when I watch the news from Pakistan, it breaks my heart that I am not there.\u201d\u2022 To hear Alixandra Fazzina talk more about her images from Pakistan, go to theguardian.com/video\u2022 This article was amended on 15 November 2014 to remove inaccuracies relating to music and a haram declaration, and personal material at the request of the subject.", "tags": ["Global development", "Pakistan", "Pakistan floods", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Women", "Life and style", "War reporting"], "title": "Caught in conflict: women in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-11-14T12:30:50Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The photojournalist Alixandra Fazzina has been collecting stories and photographs of women surviving conflict on the borders and in the cities of Pakistan for five years. The film of Alixandra\u2019s experiences is her view of Pakistan \u2013 and we would now like to find out perspectives of other people living and working there. Show us the Pakistan that we don\u2019t often see. Perhaps it\u2019s the extraordinary landscape or parts of cities that tourists don\u2019t often visit. We\u2019d also like you to tell us about your experiences of Pakistan, are they very different from what\u2019s shown in the media?It\u2019s important to take care when recording and sharing your content, as these images will be public on the GuardianWitness site. We understand that there may be cultural considerations in sharing photographs and videos , so please ensure that the content you upload isn\u2019t considered offensive to anyone in your community. You can share your photos, videos and perspectives by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pakistan holidays", "Asia"], "title": "Living in Pakistan: share your perspectives"},{"date": "2014-12-21T23:39:35Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan continued its retribution against terrorists on Sunday with the execution of four more prisoners.The deaths followed the executions of two other convicted terrorists on Friday amid seething public anger at the massacre of 148 people in the city of Peshawar last week.Syed Babar Ali, the superintendent of the district jail in Faisalabad, confirmed that Ghulam Sarwar, Akhlaque Ahmed, Rasheed Mehmood and Zubair Ahmed had been executed in the afternoon. The men were convicted for their role in a 2003 attempt to assassinate former military leader Pervez Musharraf with suicide car bombs.Prime minister Nawaz Sharif decided to abandon a six year unofficial moratorium on executions following the attack on Army Public School in Peshawar, though the decision imperils an EU trade deal.With many Pakistanis demanding public executions for terrorists, public anger at the slaughter has outweighed other concerns amid fears militants may launch jail break operations against prisons.Last week some newspapers carried graphic front page pictures of the corpses of Mohammad Aqeel and Arshad Mehmood after they became the first civilians to be hanged since 2008.Human rights groups are alarmed by the development given the notorious shortcomings of the country\u2019s criminal justice system and the tendency to convict a wide range of criminals under terrorism legislation.On Tuesday a man called Shafqat Hussain is scheduled to be executed for kidnap and murder, though he was just 14 at the time he was sentenced and has since retracted his confession, which he says was made after nine days of police torture.Clive Stafford Smith, director of the UK legal charity Reprieve, said there was a \u201creal risk\u201d an innocent man may be executed.\u201cWhile the slaughter of innocents in Peshawar was utterly reprehensible, it hardly solves the problem to kill someone who had nothing to do with it,\u201d he said.Research by Reprieve and the Justice Pakistan Project has found Pakistan\u2019s sweeping counter-terror laws have been abused in order to secure prosecutions. The report estimates that nearly 90% of those sentenced under terrorism laws \u201chad nothing to do with terror at all\u201d.\u201cInstead of being reserved for the most serious cases of recognisable acts of terror, the anti-terror legislation is in fact being used to try ordinary criminal cases,\u201d the report said.\u201cEither in a deliberate attempt to evade the procedural safeguards guaranteed by ordinary courts or due to the vague and overly broad definitions of \u2018terrorism\u2019 in the legislation.\u201dHuman Rights Watch also called for executions to be halted.\u201cPakistan\u2019s government has chosen to indulge in vengeful blood-lust instead of finding and prosecuting those responsible for the horrific Peshawar attack,\u201d said Phelim Kine of Human Rights Watch.\u201cThe government\u2019s death penalty spree is a craven politicized reaction to the Peshawar killings that will do nothing to bring the attackers to justice.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Human rights", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan hangs four more prisoners as execution campaign widens"},{"date": "2014-12-17T13:54:09Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\n\n1.54pm GMT\n13:54\n\nWe\u2019re going to bring this blog to close for now. Here\u2019s a summary of the latest developments: \n\n1.38pm GMT\n13:38\n\nThe Pakistani authorities have stated that the death toll from the attack now stands at 148 people. The number of students killed remains at 132. Another 121 students and three staff members were wounded in the assault.Lanterns have been lit for all 148 victims at a vigil in Karachi.Pakistan Youth Alliance and @khudipk lighting 148 flying lanterns to pay tribute to the martyrs of #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/i5GUyz5K7D\n\n1.27pm GMT\n13:27\n\nPakistan has shared \u201cvital intelligence\u201d with Afghanistan during the visit of army chief General Raheel Sharif to Kabul, according to military spokesman Asim Bajwal.Army #Chief lands back at Psr.Essential intelligence shared with Afgn.Common resolve;Terrorists will be eliminated from wherever they goA retired Afghan general claim edthe trip is a sham, according to AFP.General Atiqullah Amarkhail dismissed the trip as an attempt to distract attention from the failure to prevent the attack in the northwestern city of Peshawar. \u201cThe trip is no more than a manoeuvre by the Pakistanis to pressure the Afghan government and pretend those responsible for the deadly Peshawar attack are based in Afghan soil,\u201d said Amarkhail. \n\n1.10pm GMT\n13:10\n\nPakistan political rivals have agreed to come up with a national plan on tackling terrorism, in the wake of the Peshawar attack, Radio Pakistan reports.The leaders decided to form a Committee under the chairmanship of Interior Minister Nisar Ali Khan to prepare a National Plan of Action against terrorism within a week.The Committee will have one representative each from parliamentary and other political parties. Representatives of the Armed Forces and intelligence agencies will also be part of the Committee.The National Plan of Action would be presented before the national political leadership in seven days for approval. It will then be placed before the nation by national political and military leadership..The resolution announced that there will be no discrimination between good and bad Talibans and the war against terror will continue with the national spirit.#APC: #NawazSharif thanked all political leaders including Imran Khan for attending Conference http://t.co/MFMRJHOa4Q pic.twitter.com/IMgJT5RJ2hUpdated\nat 1.15pm GMT\n\n\n1.04pm GMT\n13:04\n\nThe Pakistani Taliban has posted photographs of six Islamic fighters they said took part in the Peshawar assault, AP confirms.In one photo, the militants are seen wearing army fatigues, standing with a local Taliban leader in what the statement claimed one of the Pakistani tribal regions.The Independent has more...Revealed: These are the men who massacred 132 innocent children #PeshawarAttack http://t.co/5RitHATVta pic.twitter.com/NQu1z9JEMX\n\n12.34pm GMT\n12:34\n\nAt his press conference in Peshawar, the prime minister announced there will no more distinction etween \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban.\u201cWe have resolved to continue the war against terrorism till the last terrorist is eliminated,\u201d he said according to the Express Tribune. Chatham House\u2019s Gareth Price has background on the distinction:The longer-standing complaint against Pakistan is that it picks and chooses between \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban. The TTP\u2014or factions thereof\u2014are defined as bad because it targets the Pakistani state. Those who hold similar ideologies but operate outside Pakistan, in Afghanistan and India, or even target Shias within Pakistan are tolerated.This partly reflects a hangover from the past, when Islamist groups in Kashmir and the Afghan Taliban were seen as useful instruments for Pakistan\u2019s foreign policy; the use of proxy forces by Pakistan goes back to its independence in 1947. It also reflects the weakness of civilian governments; many radical groups also undertake popular social functions such as health care, education and flood relief, which help to cover up the poor capabilities of the Pakistani state. In addition, there is a logic in Pakistan politicians\u2019 preferring that violence be displaced from Pakistan into Afghanistan, the path recently taken by the \u201cPunjabi Taliban\u201d in September this year.Pakistan\u2019s ambivalence toward the Afghan Taliban has also stemmed from a lack of belief in the solidity of the Afghan state.\n\n12.27pm GMT\n12:27\n\nImages of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif next to opposition leader Imran Khan at the all-party meeting in Peshawar have been broadcast on Pakistani TV. A Sight We Have Wished To See Since Past Four Months. I Appreciate Both. #PeshawarAttack #UnitedAgainstTTP pic.twitter.com/05c5wiNUaPNawaz announced that \u201cdialogue can resolve all sorts of issues,\u201d after inviting Imran for tea, the Express Tribune reported. Imran interupted to say: \u201cOur differences are not about our egos, it is about rigging.\u201d\n\n12.16pm GMT\n12:16\n\nHere\u2019s a summary of the latest developments:\n\n11.52am GMT\n11:52\n\nA suspected Taliban attack on a bank in Afghanistan\u2019s Helmand province, killed at least 10 people, AP reports citing policemen and officials.In the attack, in the provincial capital, Lashgar Gah, five suicide bombers raided the city\u2019s branch of the New Kabul Bank. One of the attackers blew himself up at the front entrance to allow the other three in, said Omer Zawaj, the spokesman for the provincial governor.Once inside, the other attackers fired at security forces, which arrived at the scene and surrounded the building, Zawaj said.Helmand police spokesman, Fareed Obaid, said three police officers were among those killed.\u201cThere are also 15 people wounded, including six members of the Afghan security forces,\u201d he said, adding that the rest of the insurgents were killed in the gunbattle.Afghanistan\u2019s war with the insurgents, whose leadership is based in Pakistan, has escalated in recent months, and angered President Ashraf Ghani who has vowed to bring peace to the country.The election of Ghani as president has led Afghanistan to shift course on the Taliban, according to Gareth Price senior research fellow at the foreign affairs thinktank Chatham House.In an article for Newsweek he writes: While his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, was quick to blame Pakistan for incidents in Afghanistan, Ghani has taken the view that stability in Afghanistan requires cooperation rather than confrontation with Pakistan, and he recently accepted Pakistan\u2019s long-standing offer to help train Afghanistan\u2019s military.But for Pakistan, meaningful cooperation would require Afghanistan to take action against Pakistan Taliban groups in Afghanistan. And earlier this month Afghan and US troops did exactly that: In one drone, attack nine members of the TTP were killed in Kunar province.In another sign of changing attitudes, in late November Pakistan took credit for targeting members of the Haqqani Network, a group linked to the Afghan Taliban. While the extent of its attack on the group cannot be verified, in the past the Haqqani Network appeared to have been spared the treatment meted out to the TTP and remained, in the words of U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, \u201ca veritable arm of Pakistan\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence agency.\u201d The attack in Peshawar is tragic and unlikely to be the last. But the region stands on the cusp of a potentially game-changing transformation in which the Afghan and Pakistan governments understand that their interests are best served working together rather than undermining each other.That the TTP felt the need to launch its most deadly attack at this juncture is likely to reflect its concern about what this could mean.\n\n11.29am GMT\n11:29\n\nAFP has more on the visit by Pakistan\u2019s military command to Kabul. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief General Raheel Sharif who was accompanied by the head of the Pakistan\u2019s main intelligence agency, the ISI, is set to meet Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and ISAF commander General John Campbell, according to a brief statement by the military. Some of the militants who attacked the army-run school in Peshawar Tuesday spoke in Arabic, a senior security official told AFP, which he said suggested that they had links over the border in Afghanistan.\u201cThe army chief is likely to take Afghan leadership on board on this issue,\u201d the security official said, adding that the handing over of Pakistani Taliban chief Mullah Fazlullah, who is believed to be hiding in northeastern Afghanistan, may also figure at the talks in Kabul.Afghanistan routinely accuses Pakistan of providing shelter within its borders to the Afghan Taliban, while Pakistan accuses Afghanistan of protecting members of the Pakistani Taliban.Analysts said the visit was intended to further cooperation against militants group along the countries\u2019 shared border. \u201cThe army chief is obviously interested that Tehrik-e-Taliban chief Maulana Fazlullah and his group is arrested and handed over to Pakistan or eliminated so that they do not use Afghan territory for launching attacks against Pakistan as happened in Peshawar on Tuesday,\u201d retired general and security analyst Talat Masood told AFP. \u201cGeneral Sharif wants to strengthen military-to-military and intelligence-to-intelligence level cooperation between the two countries otherwise sanctuaries in Afghanistan will be used against Pakistan,\u201d he added. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army and intelligence services are widely seen as being the driving force behind the country\u2019s defence and foreign policies. Updated\nat 11.30am GMT\n\n\n11.18am GMT\n11:18\n\nThe Pakistan Cricket Board has called off a cup final match in Muridke as a mark of respect, but a limited overs international between Pakistan and New Zealand in Abu Dhabi is due to go ahead despite calls for it to be postponed. There are plans to hold a two-minute silence at the match, and the proceeds will be donated to families of the victims. Updated\nat 11.24am GMT\n\n\n11.04am GMT\n11:04\n\nMore grim images from inside the school have emerged, showing classrooms riddled with bullets and carpets soaked in blood. \n\n10.52am GMT\n10:52\n\nPrime minister Nawas Sharif has vowed to push ahead with an army offensive against the Taliban in Pakitan or Tehrik-e-Taliban. The group claimed responsibility for the attack on Tuesday, claiming it was revenge for an offensive launched against it in the summer named Zarb-e-Azb.Speaking at an all party meeting in Peshawar today Sharif said Zarb-e-Azb \u201cis successfully moving forward and Pakistan was making efforts for peace in the region\u201d, according to the Pakistan Radio. It added:The prime minister stressed that the nation is waging jihad against terrorism and this mission will not be left unaccomplished.He recalled that the government started dialogue with militants after evolving consensus of all political parties. But the government was left with no other option but to launch military operation against terrorists due to their intransigence.\n\n10.41am GMT\n10:41\n\nOvernight, the body of the school principal, Tahira Qazi, was found among the debris, AP reports. Qazi was inside her office when the militants made their way into the administration building 20 meters from the auditorium. She had ran and locked herself into the bathroom but the attackers threw a grenade inside, through a vent, and killed her, according to army spokesman Major General Asim Bajwa. There have been widespread tributes to Qazi.my 2 heroes ! martyred miss tahira qazi (my teacher/principal) n my nephew abdullah ,brave survivor #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/OqJiG65vJoMrs.Tahira Qazi, Principal Army Public School with her son & our uni friend Ahmad Qazi on his graduation. RIP Mam :'( pic.twitter.com/Tb0JlZNk81Tribute to this Brave Lady Principal APS Tahira Qazi who was Burnt Alive by TTP Rascals. Pray for Her #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/ih4xSBGh46\n\n10.21am GMT\n10:21\n\nImages of some of the victims of the attack have been published, notes Omar Quraishi, an editor at the Express Tribune. Our future murdered -- some of the Peshawar school victims pic.twitter.com/bpFCT8KuEJ\n\n10.15am GMT\n10:15\n\nThe Pakistan Taliban has identified the militants who carried out the attack on the school, according to reporter Harald Doornbos.#break In statement, Pakistani taliban (TTP) claims these 6 men are behind #PeshawarAttack,7th man is commander: pic.twitter.com/PQrk2xXEks", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Malala Yousafzai", "Afghanistan", "World news", "India"], "title": "Pakistan school attack: political rivals agree anti-terrorism plan"},{"date": "2014-11-25T17:44:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An insurgent group known for its deadly attacks on US forces in Afghanistan has been targeted by Pakistani military aircraft in what is believed to be the first such strike on a group long accused of enjoying the secret backing of Pakistan\u2019s army.In what might herald a major shift in Pakistan\u2019s attitude to Afghanistan, military and intelligence officials said seven members of the Haqqani Network were among 20 militants killed by air strikes.Officials said the strikes, carried out by a jet and an attack helicopter, were launched against hideouts belonging to both the Haqqani Network and an allied group run by militant warlord Hafiz Gul Bahadur.The bases were in the Dattakhel area of North Waziristan, the tribal agency that for years has been a secure staging ground for militants launching attacks inside Afghanistan.Rahimullah Yousafzai, a veteran observer of the combustible borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan, cautioned that there was no way to verify whether the off-the-record claims made by intelligence officials were true.However, it was significant that they should want to take credit for killing Haqqani fighters.\u201cDefinitely if Haqqani Network people are killed that is really something the US and Afghan governments would like to hear,\u201d he said.Some of the Haqqani Network\u2019s daring and sophisticated attacks, including a day-long siege against the US embassy in Kabul, have been compared with special forces operations and enraged both Washington and Kabul. Last weekend, the bombing of a volleyball match in Afghanistan\u2019s Paktika province, which killed 57 spectators, was blamed by Afghan officials on the Haqqani Network.Even though Pakistan launched a major operation this summer to seize back control of North Waziristan, US officials were convinced the Haqqani Network was being spared while groups fighting against the Pakistani state were attacked.Earlier this month, an official report by the Pentagon accused Pakistan of using militant groups, including the Haqqani Network, as \u201cproxy forces to hedge against the loss of influence in Afghanistan and to counter India\u2019s superior military\u201d.Tuesday\u2019s development follows a dramatic thawing in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan, which culminated on 14 November with the visit of newly elected Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, to Islamabad]. Ghani claimed the talks had \u201covercome obstacles of 13 years in three days\u201d \u2013 a reference to the turbulent rule of his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, who deeply distrusted Pakistan.President Ghani made a series of major concessions to Pakistan, which Karzai always resisted, including an agreement to let Pakistan train and equip some Afghan soldiers.Islamabad, with its longstanding desire to limit the influence of arch-enemy India in Afghanistan, was also pleased by Ghani\u2019s decisions to turn down an offer of Indian military assistance.The two sides also agreed to set up a system to manage their joint border, a move Karzai resisted for fear of formally recognising the so-called Durand Line that Afghan nationalists claim gave away huge amounts of their territory when Britain drew it up in the 19th century.Diplomats say the Afghans also agreed to fight members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who have taken up sanctuary in eastern Afghanistan.On Tuesday, Pakistani intelligence sources also claimed that a US drone strike inside Afghan territory killed a number of TTP fighters and narrowly missed the movement\u2019s leader, Mullah Falzullah.Yousafzai said another reason for the targeting of Haqqani was its alliance with Hafiz Gul Bahadur, a militant leader who for years was protected by a formal pact with Pakistan in return for agreeing not to attack the state.The two sides have since fallen out and last week the group claimed responsibility for a deadly attack on security forces in Dattakhel that killed five soldiers including a senior officer.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Ashraf Ghani", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan air strikes target Haqqani insurgents"},{"date": "2014-11-14T23:33:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\u2018We nearly died getting this story,\u201d Alixandra Fazzina tells me calmly. The war artist turned award-winning photographer is flicking through the haunting images she took during her five years in Pakistan. Despite covering countries such as Somalia and Yemen \u2013 and being held hostage for four days by militiamen in Liberia \u2013 Fazzina says Pakistan is the most difficult place she has worked. And it is only now she has left that she can safely reveal many of the stories people told her.She is lingering over a picture of an 82-year-old woman praying. Sajda, she says, was tortured by the Pakistani army. Her village, close to the Afghan border, was on the frontline of the Taliban insurgency in the Swat valley, and when the fighting engulfed her home, the elderly woman was too frail to escape. \u201cShe had two bullet holes in her,\u201d Fazzina says, \u201cbut couldn\u2019t leave to see a doctor.\u201d When the 2009 military offensive against the Taliban began, Sajda was arrested by the army, who believed her son had joined the Taliban. Her home was destroyed and she was detained for seven months. \u201cShe was tortured,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cWe saw the marks on her back.\u201dThe photographer found her after being tipped off by a network of human rights lawyers and trekking to her remote village, accompanied by a young female translator. Dressed in a burqa and speaking only a little Pashto, Fazzina managed to disguise the fact that she was a foreigner, but the presence of two strangers still attracted attention in the isolated community. \u201cI think it\u2019s only because we were two women that we got away with being there,\u201d she says.But when night fell, they found themselves surrounded. \u201cIt was getting dark when the gunmen came,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cThere were probably about 40 or 50 of them.\u201dThe men watched the pair from the roofs of surrounding houses as they hurriedly left. \u201cWe had to walk away from the house with all these guns pointed at our backs,\u201d Fazzina remembers. \u201cWe thought we were going to get shot, but we didn\u2019t want to run in case it raised suspicion. My translator was praying the whole way.\u201dAfter walking across a valley and crossing a river, they finally reached their car and driver, whom they had left on a narrow mountain road. \u201cA military patrol came past and we thought, \u2018Phew, we are safe,\u2019\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cBut the next minute, insurgents with guns came out from behind the rocks and tried to stop the car as we sped away.\u201dIt was not her first brush with the Taliban. She points to a picture of two women in abayas, taken outside Al Asif Square in Karachi, a Taliban stronghold. She started photographing Afghan refugees there soon after arriving in Pakistan. \u201cApparently they had a meeting about me,\u201d Fazzina says as she describes being followed by Kalashnikov-wielding gunmen with kohl-rimmed eyes. \u201cThey said, \u2018Should we kidnap her? Shall we kill her?\u2019\u201d In the end, she says, \u201cthey obviously thought I was harmless\u201d.It\u2019s a mistake often made about the slight 40-year-old mother of one, and one she has come to rely on for protection. She is drawn to the stories of people caught up in conflicts, often ones that have been largely ignored by the rest of the world. This is why she was interested in Pakistan: the military conflict launched against insurgents there has barely registered with the outside world.On top of all this is the fear of crime \u2013kidnapping, for instance, is big business in Pakistan. Yet Fazzina counters these dangers not with armoured vehicles or bodyguards, but by remaining under the radar. She tells me (somewhat reluctantly) about a \u201cdressing-up box\u201d of clothes that, along with careful attention to local fashions and body language, help her to blend in. The quiet, personal nature of many of her photographs is testament to the hours she spends building a relationship with her subjects, through conversations and \u201cendless cups of tea\u201d; she followed some families for the whole five years she was in Pakistan. She talks with gratitude and admiration of her translator, Hina, who, with a PhD in human rights law, was as determined as Fazzina to tell the stories of the women they met.Her focus was on the women of Pakistan, she says, because they are often the most vulnerable to the upheavals caused by war and conflict. The army\u2019s 2009 offensive in the Swat valley resulted in the world\u2019s largest movement of refugees since the Rwandan genocide. As almost 3 million people fled, Fazzina heard stories of the mass kidnappings of 200 women. \u201cIt transpired this was as brides for Taliban fighters,\u201d she says. \u201cIt was very similar to what\u2019s going on in Iraq at the moment.\u201dDetermined to let the world know about the news, Fazzina tracked down some of the families whose girls had been taken, but found no one willing to talk. \u201cI have done stories about the rape of women in Afghanistan, but there it was reasonably easy to talk to the women because they thought it was an atrocity.\u201d In Pakistan, it was much more difficult, she says, because of conservative views about women\u2019s honour. \u201cOnce they talk about it, everyone knows and their family will not be able to get them married.\u201dEventually, after hearing of the death of a Taliban commander she knew had been involved in the kidnappings, she managed to track down his teenage widow. \u201cShe was a lovely, bubbly young girl, just a cool teenager, who had been going to school,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cShe said this marriage had screwed up her life. After the drone strike that killed her husband, she escaped. She wanted to go back to school, but she had a baby. She would never be able to marry again and she was only 16.\u201dFazzina believes the psychological trauma of the insurgency has taken a severe toll on Pakistan. \u201cI saw the country fall apart in the time I was there. It\u2019s like the whole country had gone silent. The Taliban have won in a lot of respects.\u201dDespite this, she says she would have remained in Pakistan if a crackdown against foreign NGOs and journalists had not seen her visa renewal refused. \u201cI fell in love with Pakistan,\u201d she says, simply. \u201cI don\u2019t think I have been anywhere that I have loved working so much. We were met with so much warmth. Despite everything, the people there have so much strength. Now when I watch the news from Pakistan, it breaks my heart that I am not there.\u201d\u2022 To hear Alixandra Fazzina talk more about her images from Pakistan, go to theguardian.com/video\u2022 This article was amended on 15 November 2014 to remove inaccuracies relating to music and a haram declaration, and personal material at the request of the subject.", "tags": ["Global development", "Pakistan", "Pakistan floods", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Women", "Life and style", "War reporting"], "title": "Caught in conflict: women in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-11-14T12:30:50Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The photojournalist Alixandra Fazzina has been collecting stories and photographs of women surviving conflict on the borders and in the cities of Pakistan for five years. The film of Alixandra\u2019s experiences is her view of Pakistan \u2013 and we would now like to find out perspectives of other people living and working there. Show us the Pakistan that we don\u2019t often see. Perhaps it\u2019s the extraordinary landscape or parts of cities that tourists don\u2019t often visit. We\u2019d also like you to tell us about your experiences of Pakistan, are they very different from what\u2019s shown in the media?It\u2019s important to take care when recording and sharing your content, as these images will be public on the GuardianWitness site. We understand that there may be cultural considerations in sharing photographs and videos , so please ensure that the content you upload isn\u2019t considered offensive to anyone in your community. You can share your photos, videos and perspectives by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pakistan holidays", "Asia"], "title": "Living in Pakistan: share your perspectives"},{"date": "2014-12-21T23:39:35Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan continued its retribution against terrorists on Sunday with the execution of four more prisoners.The deaths followed the executions of two other convicted terrorists on Friday amid seething public anger at the massacre of 148 people in the city of Peshawar last week.Syed Babar Ali, the superintendent of the district jail in Faisalabad, confirmed that Ghulam Sarwar, Akhlaque Ahmed, Rasheed Mehmood and Zubair Ahmed had been executed in the afternoon. The men were convicted for their role in a 2003 attempt to assassinate former military leader Pervez Musharraf with suicide car bombs.Prime minister Nawaz Sharif decided to abandon a six year unofficial moratorium on executions following the attack on Army Public School in Peshawar, though the decision imperils an EU trade deal.With many Pakistanis demanding public executions for terrorists, public anger at the slaughter has outweighed other concerns amid fears militants may launch jail break operations against prisons.Last week some newspapers carried graphic front page pictures of the corpses of Mohammad Aqeel and Arshad Mehmood after they became the first civilians to be hanged since 2008.Human rights groups are alarmed by the development given the notorious shortcomings of the country\u2019s criminal justice system and the tendency to convict a wide range of criminals under terrorism legislation.On Tuesday a man called Shafqat Hussain is scheduled to be executed for kidnap and murder, though he was just 14 at the time he was sentenced and has since retracted his confession, which he says was made after nine days of police torture.Clive Stafford Smith, director of the UK legal charity Reprieve, said there was a \u201creal risk\u201d an innocent man may be executed.\u201cWhile the slaughter of innocents in Peshawar was utterly reprehensible, it hardly solves the problem to kill someone who had nothing to do with it,\u201d he said.Research by Reprieve and the Justice Pakistan Project has found Pakistan\u2019s sweeping counter-terror laws have been abused in order to secure prosecutions. The report estimates that nearly 90% of those sentenced under terrorism laws \u201chad nothing to do with terror at all\u201d.\u201cInstead of being reserved for the most serious cases of recognisable acts of terror, the anti-terror legislation is in fact being used to try ordinary criminal cases,\u201d the report said.\u201cEither in a deliberate attempt to evade the procedural safeguards guaranteed by ordinary courts or due to the vague and overly broad definitions of \u2018terrorism\u2019 in the legislation.\u201dHuman Rights Watch also called for executions to be halted.\u201cPakistan\u2019s government has chosen to indulge in vengeful blood-lust instead of finding and prosecuting those responsible for the horrific Peshawar attack,\u201d said Phelim Kine of Human Rights Watch.\u201cThe government\u2019s death penalty spree is a craven politicized reaction to the Peshawar killings that will do nothing to bring the attackers to justice.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Human rights", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan hangs four more prisoners as execution campaign widens"},{"date": "2014-12-17T13:54:09Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\n\n1.54pm GMT\n13:54\n\nWe\u2019re going to bring this blog to close for now. Here\u2019s a summary of the latest developments: \n\n1.38pm GMT\n13:38\n\nThe Pakistani authorities have stated that the death toll from the attack now stands at 148 people. The number of students killed remains at 132. Another 121 students and three staff members were wounded in the assault.Lanterns have been lit for all 148 victims at a vigil in Karachi.Pakistan Youth Alliance and @khudipk lighting 148 flying lanterns to pay tribute to the martyrs of #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/i5GUyz5K7D\n\n1.27pm GMT\n13:27\n\nPakistan has shared \u201cvital intelligence\u201d with Afghanistan during the visit of army chief General Raheel Sharif to Kabul, according to military spokesman Asim Bajwal.Army #Chief lands back at Psr.Essential intelligence shared with Afgn.Common resolve;Terrorists will be eliminated from wherever they goA retired Afghan general claim edthe trip is a sham, according to AFP.General Atiqullah Amarkhail dismissed the trip as an attempt to distract attention from the failure to prevent the attack in the northwestern city of Peshawar. \u201cThe trip is no more than a manoeuvre by the Pakistanis to pressure the Afghan government and pretend those responsible for the deadly Peshawar attack are based in Afghan soil,\u201d said Amarkhail. \n\n1.10pm GMT\n13:10\n\nPakistan political rivals have agreed to come up with a national plan on tackling terrorism, in the wake of the Peshawar attack, Radio Pakistan reports.The leaders decided to form a Committee under the chairmanship of Interior Minister Nisar Ali Khan to prepare a National Plan of Action against terrorism within a week.The Committee will have one representative each from parliamentary and other political parties. Representatives of the Armed Forces and intelligence agencies will also be part of the Committee.The National Plan of Action would be presented before the national political leadership in seven days for approval. It will then be placed before the nation by national political and military leadership..The resolution announced that there will be no discrimination between good and bad Talibans and the war against terror will continue with the national spirit.#APC: #NawazSharif thanked all political leaders including Imran Khan for attending Conference http://t.co/MFMRJHOa4Q pic.twitter.com/IMgJT5RJ2hUpdated\nat 1.15pm GMT\n\n\n1.04pm GMT\n13:04\n\nThe Pakistani Taliban has posted photographs of six Islamic fighters they said took part in the Peshawar assault, AP confirms.In one photo, the militants are seen wearing army fatigues, standing with a local Taliban leader in what the statement claimed one of the Pakistani tribal regions.The Independent has more...Revealed: These are the men who massacred 132 innocent children #PeshawarAttack http://t.co/5RitHATVta pic.twitter.com/NQu1z9JEMX\n\n12.34pm GMT\n12:34\n\nAt his press conference in Peshawar, the prime minister announced there will no more distinction etween \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban.\u201cWe have resolved to continue the war against terrorism till the last terrorist is eliminated,\u201d he said according to the Express Tribune. Chatham House\u2019s Gareth Price has background on the distinction:The longer-standing complaint against Pakistan is that it picks and chooses between \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban. The TTP\u2014or factions thereof\u2014are defined as bad because it targets the Pakistani state. Those who hold similar ideologies but operate outside Pakistan, in Afghanistan and India, or even target Shias within Pakistan are tolerated.This partly reflects a hangover from the past, when Islamist groups in Kashmir and the Afghan Taliban were seen as useful instruments for Pakistan\u2019s foreign policy; the use of proxy forces by Pakistan goes back to its independence in 1947. It also reflects the weakness of civilian governments; many radical groups also undertake popular social functions such as health care, education and flood relief, which help to cover up the poor capabilities of the Pakistani state. In addition, there is a logic in Pakistan politicians\u2019 preferring that violence be displaced from Pakistan into Afghanistan, the path recently taken by the \u201cPunjabi Taliban\u201d in September this year.Pakistan\u2019s ambivalence toward the Afghan Taliban has also stemmed from a lack of belief in the solidity of the Afghan state.\n\n12.27pm GMT\n12:27\n\nImages of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif next to opposition leader Imran Khan at the all-party meeting in Peshawar have been broadcast on Pakistani TV. A Sight We Have Wished To See Since Past Four Months. I Appreciate Both. #PeshawarAttack #UnitedAgainstTTP pic.twitter.com/05c5wiNUaPNawaz announced that \u201cdialogue can resolve all sorts of issues,\u201d after inviting Imran for tea, the Express Tribune reported. Imran interupted to say: \u201cOur differences are not about our egos, it is about rigging.\u201d\n\n12.16pm GMT\n12:16\n\nHere\u2019s a summary of the latest developments:\n\n11.52am GMT\n11:52\n\nA suspected Taliban attack on a bank in Afghanistan\u2019s Helmand province, killed at least 10 people, AP reports citing policemen and officials.In the attack, in the provincial capital, Lashgar Gah, five suicide bombers raided the city\u2019s branch of the New Kabul Bank. One of the attackers blew himself up at the front entrance to allow the other three in, said Omer Zawaj, the spokesman for the provincial governor.Once inside, the other attackers fired at security forces, which arrived at the scene and surrounded the building, Zawaj said.Helmand police spokesman, Fareed Obaid, said three police officers were among those killed.\u201cThere are also 15 people wounded, including six members of the Afghan security forces,\u201d he said, adding that the rest of the insurgents were killed in the gunbattle.Afghanistan\u2019s war with the insurgents, whose leadership is based in Pakistan, has escalated in recent months, and angered President Ashraf Ghani who has vowed to bring peace to the country.The election of Ghani as president has led Afghanistan to shift course on the Taliban, according to Gareth Price senior research fellow at the foreign affairs thinktank Chatham House.In an article for Newsweek he writes: While his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, was quick to blame Pakistan for incidents in Afghanistan, Ghani has taken the view that stability in Afghanistan requires cooperation rather than confrontation with Pakistan, and he recently accepted Pakistan\u2019s long-standing offer to help train Afghanistan\u2019s military.But for Pakistan, meaningful cooperation would require Afghanistan to take action against Pakistan Taliban groups in Afghanistan. And earlier this month Afghan and US troops did exactly that: In one drone, attack nine members of the TTP were killed in Kunar province.In another sign of changing attitudes, in late November Pakistan took credit for targeting members of the Haqqani Network, a group linked to the Afghan Taliban. While the extent of its attack on the group cannot be verified, in the past the Haqqani Network appeared to have been spared the treatment meted out to the TTP and remained, in the words of U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, \u201ca veritable arm of Pakistan\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence agency.\u201d The attack in Peshawar is tragic and unlikely to be the last. But the region stands on the cusp of a potentially game-changing transformation in which the Afghan and Pakistan governments understand that their interests are best served working together rather than undermining each other.That the TTP felt the need to launch its most deadly attack at this juncture is likely to reflect its concern about what this could mean.\n\n11.29am GMT\n11:29\n\nAFP has more on the visit by Pakistan\u2019s military command to Kabul. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief General Raheel Sharif who was accompanied by the head of the Pakistan\u2019s main intelligence agency, the ISI, is set to meet Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and ISAF commander General John Campbell, according to a brief statement by the military. Some of the militants who attacked the army-run school in Peshawar Tuesday spoke in Arabic, a senior security official told AFP, which he said suggested that they had links over the border in Afghanistan.\u201cThe army chief is likely to take Afghan leadership on board on this issue,\u201d the security official said, adding that the handing over of Pakistani Taliban chief Mullah Fazlullah, who is believed to be hiding in northeastern Afghanistan, may also figure at the talks in Kabul.Afghanistan routinely accuses Pakistan of providing shelter within its borders to the Afghan Taliban, while Pakistan accuses Afghanistan of protecting members of the Pakistani Taliban.Analysts said the visit was intended to further cooperation against militants group along the countries\u2019 shared border. \u201cThe army chief is obviously interested that Tehrik-e-Taliban chief Maulana Fazlullah and his group is arrested and handed over to Pakistan or eliminated so that they do not use Afghan territory for launching attacks against Pakistan as happened in Peshawar on Tuesday,\u201d retired general and security analyst Talat Masood told AFP. \u201cGeneral Sharif wants to strengthen military-to-military and intelligence-to-intelligence level cooperation between the two countries otherwise sanctuaries in Afghanistan will be used against Pakistan,\u201d he added. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army and intelligence services are widely seen as being the driving force behind the country\u2019s defence and foreign policies. Updated\nat 11.30am GMT\n\n\n11.18am GMT\n11:18\n\nThe Pakistan Cricket Board has called off a cup final match in Muridke as a mark of respect, but a limited overs international between Pakistan and New Zealand in Abu Dhabi is due to go ahead despite calls for it to be postponed. There are plans to hold a two-minute silence at the match, and the proceeds will be donated to families of the victims. Updated\nat 11.24am GMT\n\n\n11.04am GMT\n11:04\n\nMore grim images from inside the school have emerged, showing classrooms riddled with bullets and carpets soaked in blood. \n\n10.52am GMT\n10:52\n\nPrime minister Nawas Sharif has vowed to push ahead with an army offensive against the Taliban in Pakitan or Tehrik-e-Taliban. The group claimed responsibility for the attack on Tuesday, claiming it was revenge for an offensive launched against it in the summer named Zarb-e-Azb.Speaking at an all party meeting in Peshawar today Sharif said Zarb-e-Azb \u201cis successfully moving forward and Pakistan was making efforts for peace in the region\u201d, according to the Pakistan Radio. It added:The prime minister stressed that the nation is waging jihad against terrorism and this mission will not be left unaccomplished.He recalled that the government started dialogue with militants after evolving consensus of all political parties. But the government was left with no other option but to launch military operation against terrorists due to their intransigence.\n\n10.41am GMT\n10:41\n\nOvernight, the body of the school principal, Tahira Qazi, was found among the debris, AP reports. Qazi was inside her office when the militants made their way into the administration building 20 meters from the auditorium. She had ran and locked herself into the bathroom but the attackers threw a grenade inside, through a vent, and killed her, according to army spokesman Major General Asim Bajwa. There have been widespread tributes to Qazi.my 2 heroes ! martyred miss tahira qazi (my teacher/principal) n my nephew abdullah ,brave survivor #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/OqJiG65vJoMrs.Tahira Qazi, Principal Army Public School with her son & our uni friend Ahmad Qazi on his graduation. RIP Mam :'( pic.twitter.com/Tb0JlZNk81Tribute to this Brave Lady Principal APS Tahira Qazi who was Burnt Alive by TTP Rascals. Pray for Her #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/ih4xSBGh46\n\n10.21am GMT\n10:21\n\nImages of some of the victims of the attack have been published, notes Omar Quraishi, an editor at the Express Tribune. Our future murdered -- some of the Peshawar school victims pic.twitter.com/bpFCT8KuEJ\n\n10.15am GMT\n10:15\n\nThe Pakistan Taliban has identified the militants who carried out the attack on the school, according to reporter Harald Doornbos.#break In statement, Pakistani taliban (TTP) claims these 6 men are behind #PeshawarAttack,7th man is commander: pic.twitter.com/PQrk2xXEks", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Malala Yousafzai", "Afghanistan", "World news", "India"], "title": "Pakistan school attack: political rivals agree anti-terrorism plan"},{"date": "2014-12-17T17:50:11Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Peshawar school massacre that left 132 children and nine staff dead on Tuesday provoked horror and fierce international condemnation.Leaders around the world, from Indian prime minister Narendra Modi to US president Barack Obama, condemned the attack. Pakistani Nobel peace prize winner Malala Yousafzai, who also survived a Taliban attack, said she was \u201cheartbroken by this senseless and cold-blooded act of terror\u201d.Do you live in Pakistan? How do you feel about the situation in your country? We want to hear from you. Tehrik-e-Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it was revenge for a ferocious army offensive called Zarb-e-Azb in tribal areas that has left an estimated 1,000 militants dead and tens of thousands displaced. There is a very real danger of spiraling violence as the Pakistan military, with its reputation for ruthlessness, seeks revenge for the dead children of military personnel. Share your thoughts anonymously by filling in the form below. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Peshawar school massacre: what does the future hold for Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-11-25T17:44:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An insurgent group known for its deadly attacks on US forces in Afghanistan has been targeted by Pakistani military aircraft in what is believed to be the first such strike on a group long accused of enjoying the secret backing of Pakistan\u2019s army.In what might herald a major shift in Pakistan\u2019s attitude to Afghanistan, military and intelligence officials said seven members of the Haqqani Network were among 20 militants killed by air strikes.Officials said the strikes, carried out by a jet and an attack helicopter, were launched against hideouts belonging to both the Haqqani Network and an allied group run by militant warlord Hafiz Gul Bahadur.The bases were in the Dattakhel area of North Waziristan, the tribal agency that for years has been a secure staging ground for militants launching attacks inside Afghanistan.Rahimullah Yousafzai, a veteran observer of the combustible borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan, cautioned that there was no way to verify whether the off-the-record claims made by intelligence officials were true.However, it was significant that they should want to take credit for killing Haqqani fighters.\u201cDefinitely if Haqqani Network people are killed that is really something the US and Afghan governments would like to hear,\u201d he said.Some of the Haqqani Network\u2019s daring and sophisticated attacks, including a day-long siege against the US embassy in Kabul, have been compared with special forces operations and enraged both Washington and Kabul. Last weekend, the bombing of a volleyball match in Afghanistan\u2019s Paktika province, which killed 57 spectators, was blamed by Afghan officials on the Haqqani Network.Even though Pakistan launched a major operation this summer to seize back control of North Waziristan, US officials were convinced the Haqqani Network was being spared while groups fighting against the Pakistani state were attacked.Earlier this month, an official report by the Pentagon accused Pakistan of using militant groups, including the Haqqani Network, as \u201cproxy forces to hedge against the loss of influence in Afghanistan and to counter India\u2019s superior military\u201d.Tuesday\u2019s development follows a dramatic thawing in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan, which culminated on 14 November with the visit of newly elected Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, to Islamabad]. Ghani claimed the talks had \u201covercome obstacles of 13 years in three days\u201d \u2013 a reference to the turbulent rule of his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, who deeply distrusted Pakistan.President Ghani made a series of major concessions to Pakistan, which Karzai always resisted, including an agreement to let Pakistan train and equip some Afghan soldiers.Islamabad, with its longstanding desire to limit the influence of arch-enemy India in Afghanistan, was also pleased by Ghani\u2019s decisions to turn down an offer of Indian military assistance.The two sides also agreed to set up a system to manage their joint border, a move Karzai resisted for fear of formally recognising the so-called Durand Line that Afghan nationalists claim gave away huge amounts of their territory when Britain drew it up in the 19th century.Diplomats say the Afghans also agreed to fight members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who have taken up sanctuary in eastern Afghanistan.On Tuesday, Pakistani intelligence sources also claimed that a US drone strike inside Afghan territory killed a number of TTP fighters and narrowly missed the movement\u2019s leader, Mullah Falzullah.Yousafzai said another reason for the targeting of Haqqani was its alliance with Hafiz Gul Bahadur, a militant leader who for years was protected by a formal pact with Pakistan in return for agreeing not to attack the state.The two sides have since fallen out and last week the group claimed responsibility for a deadly attack on security forces in Dattakhel that killed five soldiers including a senior officer.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Ashraf Ghani", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan air strikes target Haqqani insurgents"},{"date": "2014-11-14T23:33:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\u2018We nearly died getting this story,\u201d Alixandra Fazzina tells me calmly. The war artist turned award-winning photographer is flicking through the haunting images she took during her five years in Pakistan. Despite covering countries such as Somalia and Yemen \u2013 and being held hostage for four days by militiamen in Liberia \u2013 Fazzina says Pakistan is the most difficult place she has worked. And it is only now she has left that she can safely reveal many of the stories people told her.She is lingering over a picture of an 82-year-old woman praying. Sajda, she says, was tortured by the Pakistani army. Her village, close to the Afghan border, was on the frontline of the Taliban insurgency in the Swat valley, and when the fighting engulfed her home, the elderly woman was too frail to escape. \u201cShe had two bullet holes in her,\u201d Fazzina says, \u201cbut couldn\u2019t leave to see a doctor.\u201d When the 2009 military offensive against the Taliban began, Sajda was arrested by the army, who believed her son had joined the Taliban. Her home was destroyed and she was detained for seven months. \u201cShe was tortured,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cWe saw the marks on her back.\u201dThe photographer found her after being tipped off by a network of human rights lawyers and trekking to her remote village, accompanied by a young female translator. Dressed in a burqa and speaking only a little Pashto, Fazzina managed to disguise the fact that she was a foreigner, but the presence of two strangers still attracted attention in the isolated community. \u201cI think it\u2019s only because we were two women that we got away with being there,\u201d she says.But when night fell, they found themselves surrounded. \u201cIt was getting dark when the gunmen came,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cThere were probably about 40 or 50 of them.\u201dThe men watched the pair from the roofs of surrounding houses as they hurriedly left. \u201cWe had to walk away from the house with all these guns pointed at our backs,\u201d Fazzina remembers. \u201cWe thought we were going to get shot, but we didn\u2019t want to run in case it raised suspicion. My translator was praying the whole way.\u201dAfter walking across a valley and crossing a river, they finally reached their car and driver, whom they had left on a narrow mountain road. \u201cA military patrol came past and we thought, \u2018Phew, we are safe,\u2019\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cBut the next minute, insurgents with guns came out from behind the rocks and tried to stop the car as we sped away.\u201dIt was not her first brush with the Taliban. She points to a picture of two women in abayas, taken outside Al Asif Square in Karachi, a Taliban stronghold. She started photographing Afghan refugees there soon after arriving in Pakistan. \u201cApparently they had a meeting about me,\u201d Fazzina says as she describes being followed by Kalashnikov-wielding gunmen with kohl-rimmed eyes. \u201cThey said, \u2018Should we kidnap her? Shall we kill her?\u2019\u201d In the end, she says, \u201cthey obviously thought I was harmless\u201d.It\u2019s a mistake often made about the slight 40-year-old mother of one, and one she has come to rely on for protection. She is drawn to the stories of people caught up in conflicts, often ones that have been largely ignored by the rest of the world. This is why she was interested in Pakistan: the military conflict launched against insurgents there has barely registered with the outside world.On top of all this is the fear of crime \u2013kidnapping, for instance, is big business in Pakistan. Yet Fazzina counters these dangers not with armoured vehicles or bodyguards, but by remaining under the radar. She tells me (somewhat reluctantly) about a \u201cdressing-up box\u201d of clothes that, along with careful attention to local fashions and body language, help her to blend in. The quiet, personal nature of many of her photographs is testament to the hours she spends building a relationship with her subjects, through conversations and \u201cendless cups of tea\u201d; she followed some families for the whole five years she was in Pakistan. She talks with gratitude and admiration of her translator, Hina, who, with a PhD in human rights law, was as determined as Fazzina to tell the stories of the women they met.Her focus was on the women of Pakistan, she says, because they are often the most vulnerable to the upheavals caused by war and conflict. The army\u2019s 2009 offensive in the Swat valley resulted in the world\u2019s largest movement of refugees since the Rwandan genocide. As almost 3 million people fled, Fazzina heard stories of the mass kidnappings of 200 women. \u201cIt transpired this was as brides for Taliban fighters,\u201d she says. \u201cIt was very similar to what\u2019s going on in Iraq at the moment.\u201dDetermined to let the world know about the news, Fazzina tracked down some of the families whose girls had been taken, but found no one willing to talk. \u201cI have done stories about the rape of women in Afghanistan, but there it was reasonably easy to talk to the women because they thought it was an atrocity.\u201d In Pakistan, it was much more difficult, she says, because of conservative views about women\u2019s honour. \u201cOnce they talk about it, everyone knows and their family will not be able to get them married.\u201dEventually, after hearing of the death of a Taliban commander she knew had been involved in the kidnappings, she managed to track down his teenage widow. \u201cShe was a lovely, bubbly young girl, just a cool teenager, who had been going to school,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cShe said this marriage had screwed up her life. After the drone strike that killed her husband, she escaped. She wanted to go back to school, but she had a baby. She would never be able to marry again and she was only 16.\u201dFazzina believes the psychological trauma of the insurgency has taken a severe toll on Pakistan. \u201cI saw the country fall apart in the time I was there. It\u2019s like the whole country had gone silent. The Taliban have won in a lot of respects.\u201dDespite this, she says she would have remained in Pakistan if a crackdown against foreign NGOs and journalists had not seen her visa renewal refused. \u201cI fell in love with Pakistan,\u201d she says, simply. \u201cI don\u2019t think I have been anywhere that I have loved working so much. We were met with so much warmth. Despite everything, the people there have so much strength. Now when I watch the news from Pakistan, it breaks my heart that I am not there.\u201d\u2022 To hear Alixandra Fazzina talk more about her images from Pakistan, go to theguardian.com/video\u2022 This article was amended on 15 November 2014 to remove inaccuracies relating to music and a haram declaration, and personal material at the request of the subject.", "tags": ["Global development", "Pakistan", "Pakistan floods", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Women", "Life and style", "War reporting"], "title": "Caught in conflict: women in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-11-14T12:30:50Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The photojournalist Alixandra Fazzina has been collecting stories and photographs of women surviving conflict on the borders and in the cities of Pakistan for five years. The film of Alixandra\u2019s experiences is her view of Pakistan \u2013 and we would now like to find out perspectives of other people living and working there. Show us the Pakistan that we don\u2019t often see. Perhaps it\u2019s the extraordinary landscape or parts of cities that tourists don\u2019t often visit. We\u2019d also like you to tell us about your experiences of Pakistan, are they very different from what\u2019s shown in the media?It\u2019s important to take care when recording and sharing your content, as these images will be public on the GuardianWitness site. We understand that there may be cultural considerations in sharing photographs and videos , so please ensure that the content you upload isn\u2019t considered offensive to anyone in your community. You can share your photos, videos and perspectives by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pakistan holidays", "Asia"], "title": "Living in Pakistan: share your perspectives"},{"date": "2014-12-21T23:39:35Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan continued its retribution against terrorists on Sunday with the execution of four more prisoners.The deaths followed the executions of two other convicted terrorists on Friday amid seething public anger at the massacre of 148 people in the city of Peshawar last week.Syed Babar Ali, the superintendent of the district jail in Faisalabad, confirmed that Ghulam Sarwar, Akhlaque Ahmed, Rasheed Mehmood and Zubair Ahmed had been executed in the afternoon. The men were convicted for their role in a 2003 attempt to assassinate former military leader Pervez Musharraf with suicide car bombs.Prime minister Nawaz Sharif decided to abandon a six year unofficial moratorium on executions following the attack on Army Public School in Peshawar, though the decision imperils an EU trade deal.With many Pakistanis demanding public executions for terrorists, public anger at the slaughter has outweighed other concerns amid fears militants may launch jail break operations against prisons.Last week some newspapers carried graphic front page pictures of the corpses of Mohammad Aqeel and Arshad Mehmood after they became the first civilians to be hanged since 2008.Human rights groups are alarmed by the development given the notorious shortcomings of the country\u2019s criminal justice system and the tendency to convict a wide range of criminals under terrorism legislation.On Tuesday a man called Shafqat Hussain is scheduled to be executed for kidnap and murder, though he was just 14 at the time he was sentenced and has since retracted his confession, which he says was made after nine days of police torture.Clive Stafford Smith, director of the UK legal charity Reprieve, said there was a \u201creal risk\u201d an innocent man may be executed.\u201cWhile the slaughter of innocents in Peshawar was utterly reprehensible, it hardly solves the problem to kill someone who had nothing to do with it,\u201d he said.Research by Reprieve and the Justice Pakistan Project has found Pakistan\u2019s sweeping counter-terror laws have been abused in order to secure prosecutions. The report estimates that nearly 90% of those sentenced under terrorism laws \u201chad nothing to do with terror at all\u201d.\u201cInstead of being reserved for the most serious cases of recognisable acts of terror, the anti-terror legislation is in fact being used to try ordinary criminal cases,\u201d the report said.\u201cEither in a deliberate attempt to evade the procedural safeguards guaranteed by ordinary courts or due to the vague and overly broad definitions of \u2018terrorism\u2019 in the legislation.\u201dHuman Rights Watch also called for executions to be halted.\u201cPakistan\u2019s government has chosen to indulge in vengeful blood-lust instead of finding and prosecuting those responsible for the horrific Peshawar attack,\u201d said Phelim Kine of Human Rights Watch.\u201cThe government\u2019s death penalty spree is a craven politicized reaction to the Peshawar killings that will do nothing to bring the attackers to justice.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Human rights", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan hangs four more prisoners as execution campaign widens"},{"date": "2014-12-17T13:54:09Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\n\n1.54pm GMT\n13:54\n\nWe\u2019re going to bring this blog to close for now. Here\u2019s a summary of the latest developments: \n\n1.38pm GMT\n13:38\n\nThe Pakistani authorities have stated that the death toll from the attack now stands at 148 people. The number of students killed remains at 132. Another 121 students and three staff members were wounded in the assault.Lanterns have been lit for all 148 victims at a vigil in Karachi.Pakistan Youth Alliance and @khudipk lighting 148 flying lanterns to pay tribute to the martyrs of #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/i5GUyz5K7D\n\n1.27pm GMT\n13:27\n\nPakistan has shared \u201cvital intelligence\u201d with Afghanistan during the visit of army chief General Raheel Sharif to Kabul, according to military spokesman Asim Bajwal.Army #Chief lands back at Psr.Essential intelligence shared with Afgn.Common resolve;Terrorists will be eliminated from wherever they goA retired Afghan general claim edthe trip is a sham, according to AFP.General Atiqullah Amarkhail dismissed the trip as an attempt to distract attention from the failure to prevent the attack in the northwestern city of Peshawar. \u201cThe trip is no more than a manoeuvre by the Pakistanis to pressure the Afghan government and pretend those responsible for the deadly Peshawar attack are based in Afghan soil,\u201d said Amarkhail. \n\n1.10pm GMT\n13:10\n\nPakistan political rivals have agreed to come up with a national plan on tackling terrorism, in the wake of the Peshawar attack, Radio Pakistan reports.The leaders decided to form a Committee under the chairmanship of Interior Minister Nisar Ali Khan to prepare a National Plan of Action against terrorism within a week.The Committee will have one representative each from parliamentary and other political parties. Representatives of the Armed Forces and intelligence agencies will also be part of the Committee.The National Plan of Action would be presented before the national political leadership in seven days for approval. It will then be placed before the nation by national political and military leadership..The resolution announced that there will be no discrimination between good and bad Talibans and the war against terror will continue with the national spirit.#APC: #NawazSharif thanked all political leaders including Imran Khan for attending Conference http://t.co/MFMRJHOa4Q pic.twitter.com/IMgJT5RJ2hUpdated\nat 1.15pm GMT\n\n\n1.04pm GMT\n13:04\n\nThe Pakistani Taliban has posted photographs of six Islamic fighters they said took part in the Peshawar assault, AP confirms.In one photo, the militants are seen wearing army fatigues, standing with a local Taliban leader in what the statement claimed one of the Pakistani tribal regions.The Independent has more...Revealed: These are the men who massacred 132 innocent children #PeshawarAttack http://t.co/5RitHATVta pic.twitter.com/NQu1z9JEMX\n\n12.34pm GMT\n12:34\n\nAt his press conference in Peshawar, the prime minister announced there will no more distinction etween \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban.\u201cWe have resolved to continue the war against terrorism till the last terrorist is eliminated,\u201d he said according to the Express Tribune. Chatham House\u2019s Gareth Price has background on the distinction:The longer-standing complaint against Pakistan is that it picks and chooses between \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban. The TTP\u2014or factions thereof\u2014are defined as bad because it targets the Pakistani state. Those who hold similar ideologies but operate outside Pakistan, in Afghanistan and India, or even target Shias within Pakistan are tolerated.This partly reflects a hangover from the past, when Islamist groups in Kashmir and the Afghan Taliban were seen as useful instruments for Pakistan\u2019s foreign policy; the use of proxy forces by Pakistan goes back to its independence in 1947. It also reflects the weakness of civilian governments; many radical groups also undertake popular social functions such as health care, education and flood relief, which help to cover up the poor capabilities of the Pakistani state. In addition, there is a logic in Pakistan politicians\u2019 preferring that violence be displaced from Pakistan into Afghanistan, the path recently taken by the \u201cPunjabi Taliban\u201d in September this year.Pakistan\u2019s ambivalence toward the Afghan Taliban has also stemmed from a lack of belief in the solidity of the Afghan state.\n\n12.27pm GMT\n12:27\n\nImages of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif next to opposition leader Imran Khan at the all-party meeting in Peshawar have been broadcast on Pakistani TV. A Sight We Have Wished To See Since Past Four Months. I Appreciate Both. #PeshawarAttack #UnitedAgainstTTP pic.twitter.com/05c5wiNUaPNawaz announced that \u201cdialogue can resolve all sorts of issues,\u201d after inviting Imran for tea, the Express Tribune reported. Imran interupted to say: \u201cOur differences are not about our egos, it is about rigging.\u201d\n\n12.16pm GMT\n12:16\n\nHere\u2019s a summary of the latest developments:\n\n11.52am GMT\n11:52\n\nA suspected Taliban attack on a bank in Afghanistan\u2019s Helmand province, killed at least 10 people, AP reports citing policemen and officials.In the attack, in the provincial capital, Lashgar Gah, five suicide bombers raided the city\u2019s branch of the New Kabul Bank. One of the attackers blew himself up at the front entrance to allow the other three in, said Omer Zawaj, the spokesman for the provincial governor.Once inside, the other attackers fired at security forces, which arrived at the scene and surrounded the building, Zawaj said.Helmand police spokesman, Fareed Obaid, said three police officers were among those killed.\u201cThere are also 15 people wounded, including six members of the Afghan security forces,\u201d he said, adding that the rest of the insurgents were killed in the gunbattle.Afghanistan\u2019s war with the insurgents, whose leadership is based in Pakistan, has escalated in recent months, and angered President Ashraf Ghani who has vowed to bring peace to the country.The election of Ghani as president has led Afghanistan to shift course on the Taliban, according to Gareth Price senior research fellow at the foreign affairs thinktank Chatham House.In an article for Newsweek he writes: While his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, was quick to blame Pakistan for incidents in Afghanistan, Ghani has taken the view that stability in Afghanistan requires cooperation rather than confrontation with Pakistan, and he recently accepted Pakistan\u2019s long-standing offer to help train Afghanistan\u2019s military.But for Pakistan, meaningful cooperation would require Afghanistan to take action against Pakistan Taliban groups in Afghanistan. And earlier this month Afghan and US troops did exactly that: In one drone, attack nine members of the TTP were killed in Kunar province.In another sign of changing attitudes, in late November Pakistan took credit for targeting members of the Haqqani Network, a group linked to the Afghan Taliban. While the extent of its attack on the group cannot be verified, in the past the Haqqani Network appeared to have been spared the treatment meted out to the TTP and remained, in the words of U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, \u201ca veritable arm of Pakistan\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence agency.\u201d The attack in Peshawar is tragic and unlikely to be the last. But the region stands on the cusp of a potentially game-changing transformation in which the Afghan and Pakistan governments understand that their interests are best served working together rather than undermining each other.That the TTP felt the need to launch its most deadly attack at this juncture is likely to reflect its concern about what this could mean.\n\n11.29am GMT\n11:29\n\nAFP has more on the visit by Pakistan\u2019s military command to Kabul. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief General Raheel Sharif who was accompanied by the head of the Pakistan\u2019s main intelligence agency, the ISI, is set to meet Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and ISAF commander General John Campbell, according to a brief statement by the military. Some of the militants who attacked the army-run school in Peshawar Tuesday spoke in Arabic, a senior security official told AFP, which he said suggested that they had links over the border in Afghanistan.\u201cThe army chief is likely to take Afghan leadership on board on this issue,\u201d the security official said, adding that the handing over of Pakistani Taliban chief Mullah Fazlullah, who is believed to be hiding in northeastern Afghanistan, may also figure at the talks in Kabul.Afghanistan routinely accuses Pakistan of providing shelter within its borders to the Afghan Taliban, while Pakistan accuses Afghanistan of protecting members of the Pakistani Taliban.Analysts said the visit was intended to further cooperation against militants group along the countries\u2019 shared border. \u201cThe army chief is obviously interested that Tehrik-e-Taliban chief Maulana Fazlullah and his group is arrested and handed over to Pakistan or eliminated so that they do not use Afghan territory for launching attacks against Pakistan as happened in Peshawar on Tuesday,\u201d retired general and security analyst Talat Masood told AFP. \u201cGeneral Sharif wants to strengthen military-to-military and intelligence-to-intelligence level cooperation between the two countries otherwise sanctuaries in Afghanistan will be used against Pakistan,\u201d he added. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army and intelligence services are widely seen as being the driving force behind the country\u2019s defence and foreign policies. Updated\nat 11.30am GMT\n\n\n11.18am GMT\n11:18\n\nThe Pakistan Cricket Board has called off a cup final match in Muridke as a mark of respect, but a limited overs international between Pakistan and New Zealand in Abu Dhabi is due to go ahead despite calls for it to be postponed. There are plans to hold a two-minute silence at the match, and the proceeds will be donated to families of the victims. Updated\nat 11.24am GMT\n\n\n11.04am GMT\n11:04\n\nMore grim images from inside the school have emerged, showing classrooms riddled with bullets and carpets soaked in blood. \n\n10.52am GMT\n10:52\n\nPrime minister Nawas Sharif has vowed to push ahead with an army offensive against the Taliban in Pakitan or Tehrik-e-Taliban. The group claimed responsibility for the attack on Tuesday, claiming it was revenge for an offensive launched against it in the summer named Zarb-e-Azb.Speaking at an all party meeting in Peshawar today Sharif said Zarb-e-Azb \u201cis successfully moving forward and Pakistan was making efforts for peace in the region\u201d, according to the Pakistan Radio. It added:The prime minister stressed that the nation is waging jihad against terrorism and this mission will not be left unaccomplished.He recalled that the government started dialogue with militants after evolving consensus of all political parties. But the government was left with no other option but to launch military operation against terrorists due to their intransigence.\n\n10.41am GMT\n10:41\n\nOvernight, the body of the school principal, Tahira Qazi, was found among the debris, AP reports. Qazi was inside her office when the militants made their way into the administration building 20 meters from the auditorium. She had ran and locked herself into the bathroom but the attackers threw a grenade inside, through a vent, and killed her, according to army spokesman Major General Asim Bajwa. There have been widespread tributes to Qazi.my 2 heroes ! martyred miss tahira qazi (my teacher/principal) n my nephew abdullah ,brave survivor #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/OqJiG65vJoMrs.Tahira Qazi, Principal Army Public School with her son & our uni friend Ahmad Qazi on his graduation. RIP Mam :'( pic.twitter.com/Tb0JlZNk81Tribute to this Brave Lady Principal APS Tahira Qazi who was Burnt Alive by TTP Rascals. Pray for Her #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/ih4xSBGh46\n\n10.21am GMT\n10:21\n\nImages of some of the victims of the attack have been published, notes Omar Quraishi, an editor at the Express Tribune. Our future murdered -- some of the Peshawar school victims pic.twitter.com/bpFCT8KuEJ\n\n10.15am GMT\n10:15\n\nThe Pakistan Taliban has identified the militants who carried out the attack on the school, according to reporter Harald Doornbos.#break In statement, Pakistani taliban (TTP) claims these 6 men are behind #PeshawarAttack,7th man is commander: pic.twitter.com/PQrk2xXEks", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Malala Yousafzai", "Afghanistan", "World news", "India"], "title": "Pakistan school attack: political rivals agree anti-terrorism plan"},{"date": "2014-12-17T17:50:11Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Peshawar school massacre that left 132 children and nine staff dead on Tuesday provoked horror and fierce international condemnation.Leaders around the world, from Indian prime minister Narendra Modi to US president Barack Obama, condemned the attack. Pakistani Nobel peace prize winner Malala Yousafzai, who also survived a Taliban attack, said she was \u201cheartbroken by this senseless and cold-blooded act of terror\u201d.Do you live in Pakistan? How do you feel about the situation in your country? We want to hear from you. Tehrik-e-Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it was revenge for a ferocious army offensive called Zarb-e-Azb in tribal areas that has left an estimated 1,000 militants dead and tens of thousands displaced. There is a very real danger of spiraling violence as the Pakistan military, with its reputation for ruthlessness, seeks revenge for the dead children of military personnel. Share your thoughts anonymously by filling in the form below. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Peshawar school massacre: what does the future hold for Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-12-16T23:11:15Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Good morning folks, and welcome to the Morning Mail \u2013 sign up here to get it straight to your inbox every weekday morning.  Katrina Dawson a 38-year-old barrister and mother of three children, and Tori Johnson, the 34-year-old manager of the Lindt cafe, were named as the hostages who were killed during the siege in Sydney\u2019s Martin Place.Tony Abbott says there are questions to be answered about how \u201csick and disturbed\u201d gunman Man Haron Monis remained at largeExclusive: Inside the Sydney siege - hostages tell of horror in the cafe.\u201cWe\u2019re not getting out of here, none of us are. We are going to die here.\u201d UK prime minister David Cameron has paid tribute to the victims of attacks in Australia and Pakistan How the Australian media reported the Sydney siege, how newspapers around the world covered the Sydney siege on their front pages, and Rupert Murdoch criticised around the world for his tweet \u2018gloating\u2019 about the Daily Telegraph\u2019s coverage of the Sydney siege in the print edition.Visit our Sydney siege tag page for the Guardian\u2019s comprehensive coverage, with dozens of pieces including video, images and analysis. At least 141 people are dead \u2013 including 132 students \u2013 after attackers stormed a Peshawar school and started shooting children. Pakistan has responded to the school massacre with massive air strikes against the Taliban. Police say the siege is now over and five terrorists have been killed. Survivors have told of the terror, saying \u201cI saw death so close\u201d, and pictures from the attack show a desperate scene. The Taliban group behind the attack may be trying to prove its effectiveness after a series of splits, and we have a comment piece reiterating how this sickening massacre isn\u2019t about religion - it\u2019s about intimidation. See how the attack and Pakistan\u2019s response unfolded in our rolling coverage. Employment department staff have rejected a below-inflation pay offer, prompting employment minister Eric Abetz to warn wage rises could \u201conly be paid for through job losses\u201d. The governor general has stripped disgraced former Labor powerbroker Ebbie Obeid of his Order of Australia Medal. A police officer who was found guilty of assaulting Brazilian student Roberto Curti during his fatal arrest in Sydney\u2019s CBD has escaped a conviction. Last year Joe Hockey was trying his very best to make the economic situation look as bad as possible in order to lay the blame of the deficits on Labor. Now it\u2019s even worse, so it\u2019s only fitting his budget rhetoric has come back to haunt him, writes Greg Jericho. Russians left wondering whether the good times under Vladimir Putin are over as the rouble crashes to dramatic low amid frantic central bank rate rise.A federal judge has found president Barack Obama\u2019s new plan to ease the threat of deportation for 4.7 million undocumented immigrants violates the US constitution.Pennsylvania police have found the body of a man suspected of killing six members of his ex-wife\u2019s family.Jeb Bush, the brother of former US president George W Bush, says he is \u2018actively exploring\u2019 a run for the presidency in 2016.The people of Manus Island had no say in the decision to build a detention centre here. But, as this exclusive investigation reveals, the arrival of refugees from around the world \u2013 and the industry that feeds off them \u2013 has brought both economic boom and devastating consequences.Have an excellent day \u2013 and if you spot something I\u2019ve missed, let me know in the comments here or on Twitter @earleyedition.Get the Morning Mail direct to your inbox first thing every weekday by signing up here.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Sydney siege"], "title": "Morning Mail: Sydney siege, Pakistan school massacre, department of unemployment"},{"date": "2014-11-25T17:44:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An insurgent group known for its deadly attacks on US forces in Afghanistan has been targeted by Pakistani military aircraft in what is believed to be the first such strike on a group long accused of enjoying the secret backing of Pakistan\u2019s army.In what might herald a major shift in Pakistan\u2019s attitude to Afghanistan, military and intelligence officials said seven members of the Haqqani Network were among 20 militants killed by air strikes.Officials said the strikes, carried out by a jet and an attack helicopter, were launched against hideouts belonging to both the Haqqani Network and an allied group run by militant warlord Hafiz Gul Bahadur.The bases were in the Dattakhel area of North Waziristan, the tribal agency that for years has been a secure staging ground for militants launching attacks inside Afghanistan.Rahimullah Yousafzai, a veteran observer of the combustible borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan, cautioned that there was no way to verify whether the off-the-record claims made by intelligence officials were true.However, it was significant that they should want to take credit for killing Haqqani fighters.\u201cDefinitely if Haqqani Network people are killed that is really something the US and Afghan governments would like to hear,\u201d he said.Some of the Haqqani Network\u2019s daring and sophisticated attacks, including a day-long siege against the US embassy in Kabul, have been compared with special forces operations and enraged both Washington and Kabul. Last weekend, the bombing of a volleyball match in Afghanistan\u2019s Paktika province, which killed 57 spectators, was blamed by Afghan officials on the Haqqani Network.Even though Pakistan launched a major operation this summer to seize back control of North Waziristan, US officials were convinced the Haqqani Network was being spared while groups fighting against the Pakistani state were attacked.Earlier this month, an official report by the Pentagon accused Pakistan of using militant groups, including the Haqqani Network, as \u201cproxy forces to hedge against the loss of influence in Afghanistan and to counter India\u2019s superior military\u201d.Tuesday\u2019s development follows a dramatic thawing in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan, which culminated on 14 November with the visit of newly elected Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, to Islamabad]. Ghani claimed the talks had \u201covercome obstacles of 13 years in three days\u201d \u2013 a reference to the turbulent rule of his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, who deeply distrusted Pakistan.President Ghani made a series of major concessions to Pakistan, which Karzai always resisted, including an agreement to let Pakistan train and equip some Afghan soldiers.Islamabad, with its longstanding desire to limit the influence of arch-enemy India in Afghanistan, was also pleased by Ghani\u2019s decisions to turn down an offer of Indian military assistance.The two sides also agreed to set up a system to manage their joint border, a move Karzai resisted for fear of formally recognising the so-called Durand Line that Afghan nationalists claim gave away huge amounts of their territory when Britain drew it up in the 19th century.Diplomats say the Afghans also agreed to fight members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who have taken up sanctuary in eastern Afghanistan.On Tuesday, Pakistani intelligence sources also claimed that a US drone strike inside Afghan territory killed a number of TTP fighters and narrowly missed the movement\u2019s leader, Mullah Falzullah.Yousafzai said another reason for the targeting of Haqqani was its alliance with Hafiz Gul Bahadur, a militant leader who for years was protected by a formal pact with Pakistan in return for agreeing not to attack the state.The two sides have since fallen out and last week the group claimed responsibility for a deadly attack on security forces in Dattakhel that killed five soldiers including a senior officer.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Ashraf Ghani", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan air strikes target Haqqani insurgents"},{"date": "2014-11-14T23:33:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\u2018We nearly died getting this story,\u201d Alixandra Fazzina tells me calmly. The war artist turned award-winning photographer is flicking through the haunting images she took during her five years in Pakistan. Despite covering countries such as Somalia and Yemen \u2013 and being held hostage for four days by militiamen in Liberia \u2013 Fazzina says Pakistan is the most difficult place she has worked. And it is only now she has left that she can safely reveal many of the stories people told her.She is lingering over a picture of an 82-year-old woman praying. Sajda, she says, was tortured by the Pakistani army. Her village, close to the Afghan border, was on the frontline of the Taliban insurgency in the Swat valley, and when the fighting engulfed her home, the elderly woman was too frail to escape. \u201cShe had two bullet holes in her,\u201d Fazzina says, \u201cbut couldn\u2019t leave to see a doctor.\u201d When the 2009 military offensive against the Taliban began, Sajda was arrested by the army, who believed her son had joined the Taliban. Her home was destroyed and she was detained for seven months. \u201cShe was tortured,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cWe saw the marks on her back.\u201dThe photographer found her after being tipped off by a network of human rights lawyers and trekking to her remote village, accompanied by a young female translator. Dressed in a burqa and speaking only a little Pashto, Fazzina managed to disguise the fact that she was a foreigner, but the presence of two strangers still attracted attention in the isolated community. \u201cI think it\u2019s only because we were two women that we got away with being there,\u201d she says.But when night fell, they found themselves surrounded. \u201cIt was getting dark when the gunmen came,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cThere were probably about 40 or 50 of them.\u201dThe men watched the pair from the roofs of surrounding houses as they hurriedly left. \u201cWe had to walk away from the house with all these guns pointed at our backs,\u201d Fazzina remembers. \u201cWe thought we were going to get shot, but we didn\u2019t want to run in case it raised suspicion. My translator was praying the whole way.\u201dAfter walking across a valley and crossing a river, they finally reached their car and driver, whom they had left on a narrow mountain road. \u201cA military patrol came past and we thought, \u2018Phew, we are safe,\u2019\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cBut the next minute, insurgents with guns came out from behind the rocks and tried to stop the car as we sped away.\u201dIt was not her first brush with the Taliban. She points to a picture of two women in abayas, taken outside Al Asif Square in Karachi, a Taliban stronghold. She started photographing Afghan refugees there soon after arriving in Pakistan. \u201cApparently they had a meeting about me,\u201d Fazzina says as she describes being followed by Kalashnikov-wielding gunmen with kohl-rimmed eyes. \u201cThey said, \u2018Should we kidnap her? Shall we kill her?\u2019\u201d In the end, she says, \u201cthey obviously thought I was harmless\u201d.It\u2019s a mistake often made about the slight 40-year-old mother of one, and one she has come to rely on for protection. She is drawn to the stories of people caught up in conflicts, often ones that have been largely ignored by the rest of the world. This is why she was interested in Pakistan: the military conflict launched against insurgents there has barely registered with the outside world.On top of all this is the fear of crime \u2013kidnapping, for instance, is big business in Pakistan. Yet Fazzina counters these dangers not with armoured vehicles or bodyguards, but by remaining under the radar. She tells me (somewhat reluctantly) about a \u201cdressing-up box\u201d of clothes that, along with careful attention to local fashions and body language, help her to blend in. The quiet, personal nature of many of her photographs is testament to the hours she spends building a relationship with her subjects, through conversations and \u201cendless cups of tea\u201d; she followed some families for the whole five years she was in Pakistan. She talks with gratitude and admiration of her translator, Hina, who, with a PhD in human rights law, was as determined as Fazzina to tell the stories of the women they met.Her focus was on the women of Pakistan, she says, because they are often the most vulnerable to the upheavals caused by war and conflict. The army\u2019s 2009 offensive in the Swat valley resulted in the world\u2019s largest movement of refugees since the Rwandan genocide. As almost 3 million people fled, Fazzina heard stories of the mass kidnappings of 200 women. \u201cIt transpired this was as brides for Taliban fighters,\u201d she says. \u201cIt was very similar to what\u2019s going on in Iraq at the moment.\u201dDetermined to let the world know about the news, Fazzina tracked down some of the families whose girls had been taken, but found no one willing to talk. \u201cI have done stories about the rape of women in Afghanistan, but there it was reasonably easy to talk to the women because they thought it was an atrocity.\u201d In Pakistan, it was much more difficult, she says, because of conservative views about women\u2019s honour. \u201cOnce they talk about it, everyone knows and their family will not be able to get them married.\u201dEventually, after hearing of the death of a Taliban commander she knew had been involved in the kidnappings, she managed to track down his teenage widow. \u201cShe was a lovely, bubbly young girl, just a cool teenager, who had been going to school,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cShe said this marriage had screwed up her life. After the drone strike that killed her husband, she escaped. She wanted to go back to school, but she had a baby. She would never be able to marry again and she was only 16.\u201dFazzina believes the psychological trauma of the insurgency has taken a severe toll on Pakistan. \u201cI saw the country fall apart in the time I was there. It\u2019s like the whole country had gone silent. The Taliban have won in a lot of respects.\u201dDespite this, she says she would have remained in Pakistan if a crackdown against foreign NGOs and journalists had not seen her visa renewal refused. \u201cI fell in love with Pakistan,\u201d she says, simply. \u201cI don\u2019t think I have been anywhere that I have loved working so much. We were met with so much warmth. Despite everything, the people there have so much strength. Now when I watch the news from Pakistan, it breaks my heart that I am not there.\u201d\u2022 To hear Alixandra Fazzina talk more about her images from Pakistan, go to theguardian.com/video\u2022 This article was amended on 15 November 2014 to remove inaccuracies relating to music and a haram declaration, and personal material at the request of the subject.", "tags": ["Global development", "Pakistan", "Pakistan floods", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Women", "Life and style", "War reporting"], "title": "Caught in conflict: women in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-11-14T12:30:50Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The photojournalist Alixandra Fazzina has been collecting stories and photographs of women surviving conflict on the borders and in the cities of Pakistan for five years. The film of Alixandra\u2019s experiences is her view of Pakistan \u2013 and we would now like to find out perspectives of other people living and working there. Show us the Pakistan that we don\u2019t often see. Perhaps it\u2019s the extraordinary landscape or parts of cities that tourists don\u2019t often visit. We\u2019d also like you to tell us about your experiences of Pakistan, are they very different from what\u2019s shown in the media?It\u2019s important to take care when recording and sharing your content, as these images will be public on the GuardianWitness site. We understand that there may be cultural considerations in sharing photographs and videos , so please ensure that the content you upload isn\u2019t considered offensive to anyone in your community. You can share your photos, videos and perspectives by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pakistan holidays", "Asia"], "title": "Living in Pakistan: share your perspectives"},{"date": "2014-12-21T23:39:35Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan continued its retribution against terrorists on Sunday with the execution of four more prisoners.The deaths followed the executions of two other convicted terrorists on Friday amid seething public anger at the massacre of 148 people in the city of Peshawar last week.Syed Babar Ali, the superintendent of the district jail in Faisalabad, confirmed that Ghulam Sarwar, Akhlaque Ahmed, Rasheed Mehmood and Zubair Ahmed had been executed in the afternoon. The men were convicted for their role in a 2003 attempt to assassinate former military leader Pervez Musharraf with suicide car bombs.Prime minister Nawaz Sharif decided to abandon a six year unofficial moratorium on executions following the attack on Army Public School in Peshawar, though the decision imperils an EU trade deal.With many Pakistanis demanding public executions for terrorists, public anger at the slaughter has outweighed other concerns amid fears militants may launch jail break operations against prisons.Last week some newspapers carried graphic front page pictures of the corpses of Mohammad Aqeel and Arshad Mehmood after they became the first civilians to be hanged since 2008.Human rights groups are alarmed by the development given the notorious shortcomings of the country\u2019s criminal justice system and the tendency to convict a wide range of criminals under terrorism legislation.On Tuesday a man called Shafqat Hussain is scheduled to be executed for kidnap and murder, though he was just 14 at the time he was sentenced and has since retracted his confession, which he says was made after nine days of police torture.Clive Stafford Smith, director of the UK legal charity Reprieve, said there was a \u201creal risk\u201d an innocent man may be executed.\u201cWhile the slaughter of innocents in Peshawar was utterly reprehensible, it hardly solves the problem to kill someone who had nothing to do with it,\u201d he said.Research by Reprieve and the Justice Pakistan Project has found Pakistan\u2019s sweeping counter-terror laws have been abused in order to secure prosecutions. The report estimates that nearly 90% of those sentenced under terrorism laws \u201chad nothing to do with terror at all\u201d.\u201cInstead of being reserved for the most serious cases of recognisable acts of terror, the anti-terror legislation is in fact being used to try ordinary criminal cases,\u201d the report said.\u201cEither in a deliberate attempt to evade the procedural safeguards guaranteed by ordinary courts or due to the vague and overly broad definitions of \u2018terrorism\u2019 in the legislation.\u201dHuman Rights Watch also called for executions to be halted.\u201cPakistan\u2019s government has chosen to indulge in vengeful blood-lust instead of finding and prosecuting those responsible for the horrific Peshawar attack,\u201d said Phelim Kine of Human Rights Watch.\u201cThe government\u2019s death penalty spree is a craven politicized reaction to the Peshawar killings that will do nothing to bring the attackers to justice.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Human rights", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan hangs four more prisoners as execution campaign widens"},{"date": "2014-12-17T13:54:09Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\n\n1.54pm GMT\n13:54\n\nWe\u2019re going to bring this blog to close for now. Here\u2019s a summary of the latest developments: \n\n1.38pm GMT\n13:38\n\nThe Pakistani authorities have stated that the death toll from the attack now stands at 148 people. The number of students killed remains at 132. Another 121 students and three staff members were wounded in the assault.Lanterns have been lit for all 148 victims at a vigil in Karachi.Pakistan Youth Alliance and @khudipk lighting 148 flying lanterns to pay tribute to the martyrs of #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/i5GUyz5K7D\n\n1.27pm GMT\n13:27\n\nPakistan has shared \u201cvital intelligence\u201d with Afghanistan during the visit of army chief General Raheel Sharif to Kabul, according to military spokesman Asim Bajwal.Army #Chief lands back at Psr.Essential intelligence shared with Afgn.Common resolve;Terrorists will be eliminated from wherever they goA retired Afghan general claim edthe trip is a sham, according to AFP.General Atiqullah Amarkhail dismissed the trip as an attempt to distract attention from the failure to prevent the attack in the northwestern city of Peshawar. \u201cThe trip is no more than a manoeuvre by the Pakistanis to pressure the Afghan government and pretend those responsible for the deadly Peshawar attack are based in Afghan soil,\u201d said Amarkhail. \n\n1.10pm GMT\n13:10\n\nPakistan political rivals have agreed to come up with a national plan on tackling terrorism, in the wake of the Peshawar attack, Radio Pakistan reports.The leaders decided to form a Committee under the chairmanship of Interior Minister Nisar Ali Khan to prepare a National Plan of Action against terrorism within a week.The Committee will have one representative each from parliamentary and other political parties. Representatives of the Armed Forces and intelligence agencies will also be part of the Committee.The National Plan of Action would be presented before the national political leadership in seven days for approval. It will then be placed before the nation by national political and military leadership..The resolution announced that there will be no discrimination between good and bad Talibans and the war against terror will continue with the national spirit.#APC: #NawazSharif thanked all political leaders including Imran Khan for attending Conference http://t.co/MFMRJHOa4Q pic.twitter.com/IMgJT5RJ2hUpdated\nat 1.15pm GMT\n\n\n1.04pm GMT\n13:04\n\nThe Pakistani Taliban has posted photographs of six Islamic fighters they said took part in the Peshawar assault, AP confirms.In one photo, the militants are seen wearing army fatigues, standing with a local Taliban leader in what the statement claimed one of the Pakistani tribal regions.The Independent has more...Revealed: These are the men who massacred 132 innocent children #PeshawarAttack http://t.co/5RitHATVta pic.twitter.com/NQu1z9JEMX\n\n12.34pm GMT\n12:34\n\nAt his press conference in Peshawar, the prime minister announced there will no more distinction etween \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban.\u201cWe have resolved to continue the war against terrorism till the last terrorist is eliminated,\u201d he said according to the Express Tribune. Chatham House\u2019s Gareth Price has background on the distinction:The longer-standing complaint against Pakistan is that it picks and chooses between \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban. The TTP\u2014or factions thereof\u2014are defined as bad because it targets the Pakistani state. Those who hold similar ideologies but operate outside Pakistan, in Afghanistan and India, or even target Shias within Pakistan are tolerated.This partly reflects a hangover from the past, when Islamist groups in Kashmir and the Afghan Taliban were seen as useful instruments for Pakistan\u2019s foreign policy; the use of proxy forces by Pakistan goes back to its independence in 1947. It also reflects the weakness of civilian governments; many radical groups also undertake popular social functions such as health care, education and flood relief, which help to cover up the poor capabilities of the Pakistani state. In addition, there is a logic in Pakistan politicians\u2019 preferring that violence be displaced from Pakistan into Afghanistan, the path recently taken by the \u201cPunjabi Taliban\u201d in September this year.Pakistan\u2019s ambivalence toward the Afghan Taliban has also stemmed from a lack of belief in the solidity of the Afghan state.\n\n12.27pm GMT\n12:27\n\nImages of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif next to opposition leader Imran Khan at the all-party meeting in Peshawar have been broadcast on Pakistani TV. A Sight We Have Wished To See Since Past Four Months. I Appreciate Both. #PeshawarAttack #UnitedAgainstTTP pic.twitter.com/05c5wiNUaPNawaz announced that \u201cdialogue can resolve all sorts of issues,\u201d after inviting Imran for tea, the Express Tribune reported. Imran interupted to say: \u201cOur differences are not about our egos, it is about rigging.\u201d\n\n12.16pm GMT\n12:16\n\nHere\u2019s a summary of the latest developments:\n\n11.52am GMT\n11:52\n\nA suspected Taliban attack on a bank in Afghanistan\u2019s Helmand province, killed at least 10 people, AP reports citing policemen and officials.In the attack, in the provincial capital, Lashgar Gah, five suicide bombers raided the city\u2019s branch of the New Kabul Bank. One of the attackers blew himself up at the front entrance to allow the other three in, said Omer Zawaj, the spokesman for the provincial governor.Once inside, the other attackers fired at security forces, which arrived at the scene and surrounded the building, Zawaj said.Helmand police spokesman, Fareed Obaid, said three police officers were among those killed.\u201cThere are also 15 people wounded, including six members of the Afghan security forces,\u201d he said, adding that the rest of the insurgents were killed in the gunbattle.Afghanistan\u2019s war with the insurgents, whose leadership is based in Pakistan, has escalated in recent months, and angered President Ashraf Ghani who has vowed to bring peace to the country.The election of Ghani as president has led Afghanistan to shift course on the Taliban, according to Gareth Price senior research fellow at the foreign affairs thinktank Chatham House.In an article for Newsweek he writes: While his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, was quick to blame Pakistan for incidents in Afghanistan, Ghani has taken the view that stability in Afghanistan requires cooperation rather than confrontation with Pakistan, and he recently accepted Pakistan\u2019s long-standing offer to help train Afghanistan\u2019s military.But for Pakistan, meaningful cooperation would require Afghanistan to take action against Pakistan Taliban groups in Afghanistan. And earlier this month Afghan and US troops did exactly that: In one drone, attack nine members of the TTP were killed in Kunar province.In another sign of changing attitudes, in late November Pakistan took credit for targeting members of the Haqqani Network, a group linked to the Afghan Taliban. While the extent of its attack on the group cannot be verified, in the past the Haqqani Network appeared to have been spared the treatment meted out to the TTP and remained, in the words of U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, \u201ca veritable arm of Pakistan\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence agency.\u201d The attack in Peshawar is tragic and unlikely to be the last. But the region stands on the cusp of a potentially game-changing transformation in which the Afghan and Pakistan governments understand that their interests are best served working together rather than undermining each other.That the TTP felt the need to launch its most deadly attack at this juncture is likely to reflect its concern about what this could mean.\n\n11.29am GMT\n11:29\n\nAFP has more on the visit by Pakistan\u2019s military command to Kabul. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief General Raheel Sharif who was accompanied by the head of the Pakistan\u2019s main intelligence agency, the ISI, is set to meet Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and ISAF commander General John Campbell, according to a brief statement by the military. Some of the militants who attacked the army-run school in Peshawar Tuesday spoke in Arabic, a senior security official told AFP, which he said suggested that they had links over the border in Afghanistan.\u201cThe army chief is likely to take Afghan leadership on board on this issue,\u201d the security official said, adding that the handing over of Pakistani Taliban chief Mullah Fazlullah, who is believed to be hiding in northeastern Afghanistan, may also figure at the talks in Kabul.Afghanistan routinely accuses Pakistan of providing shelter within its borders to the Afghan Taliban, while Pakistan accuses Afghanistan of protecting members of the Pakistani Taliban.Analysts said the visit was intended to further cooperation against militants group along the countries\u2019 shared border. \u201cThe army chief is obviously interested that Tehrik-e-Taliban chief Maulana Fazlullah and his group is arrested and handed over to Pakistan or eliminated so that they do not use Afghan territory for launching attacks against Pakistan as happened in Peshawar on Tuesday,\u201d retired general and security analyst Talat Masood told AFP. \u201cGeneral Sharif wants to strengthen military-to-military and intelligence-to-intelligence level cooperation between the two countries otherwise sanctuaries in Afghanistan will be used against Pakistan,\u201d he added. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army and intelligence services are widely seen as being the driving force behind the country\u2019s defence and foreign policies. Updated\nat 11.30am GMT\n\n\n11.18am GMT\n11:18\n\nThe Pakistan Cricket Board has called off a cup final match in Muridke as a mark of respect, but a limited overs international between Pakistan and New Zealand in Abu Dhabi is due to go ahead despite calls for it to be postponed. There are plans to hold a two-minute silence at the match, and the proceeds will be donated to families of the victims. Updated\nat 11.24am GMT\n\n\n11.04am GMT\n11:04\n\nMore grim images from inside the school have emerged, showing classrooms riddled with bullets and carpets soaked in blood. \n\n10.52am GMT\n10:52\n\nPrime minister Nawas Sharif has vowed to push ahead with an army offensive against the Taliban in Pakitan or Tehrik-e-Taliban. The group claimed responsibility for the attack on Tuesday, claiming it was revenge for an offensive launched against it in the summer named Zarb-e-Azb.Speaking at an all party meeting in Peshawar today Sharif said Zarb-e-Azb \u201cis successfully moving forward and Pakistan was making efforts for peace in the region\u201d, according to the Pakistan Radio. It added:The prime minister stressed that the nation is waging jihad against terrorism and this mission will not be left unaccomplished.He recalled that the government started dialogue with militants after evolving consensus of all political parties. But the government was left with no other option but to launch military operation against terrorists due to their intransigence.\n\n10.41am GMT\n10:41\n\nOvernight, the body of the school principal, Tahira Qazi, was found among the debris, AP reports. Qazi was inside her office when the militants made their way into the administration building 20 meters from the auditorium. She had ran and locked herself into the bathroom but the attackers threw a grenade inside, through a vent, and killed her, according to army spokesman Major General Asim Bajwa. There have been widespread tributes to Qazi.my 2 heroes ! martyred miss tahira qazi (my teacher/principal) n my nephew abdullah ,brave survivor #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/OqJiG65vJoMrs.Tahira Qazi, Principal Army Public School with her son & our uni friend Ahmad Qazi on his graduation. RIP Mam :'( pic.twitter.com/Tb0JlZNk81Tribute to this Brave Lady Principal APS Tahira Qazi who was Burnt Alive by TTP Rascals. Pray for Her #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/ih4xSBGh46\n\n10.21am GMT\n10:21\n\nImages of some of the victims of the attack have been published, notes Omar Quraishi, an editor at the Express Tribune. Our future murdered -- some of the Peshawar school victims pic.twitter.com/bpFCT8KuEJ\n\n10.15am GMT\n10:15\n\nThe Pakistan Taliban has identified the militants who carried out the attack on the school, according to reporter Harald Doornbos.#break In statement, Pakistani taliban (TTP) claims these 6 men are behind #PeshawarAttack,7th man is commander: pic.twitter.com/PQrk2xXEks", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Malala Yousafzai", "Afghanistan", "World news", "India"], "title": "Pakistan school attack: political rivals agree anti-terrorism plan"},{"date": "2014-12-17T17:50:11Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Peshawar school massacre that left 132 children and nine staff dead on Tuesday provoked horror and fierce international condemnation.Leaders around the world, from Indian prime minister Narendra Modi to US president Barack Obama, condemned the attack. Pakistani Nobel peace prize winner Malala Yousafzai, who also survived a Taliban attack, said she was \u201cheartbroken by this senseless and cold-blooded act of terror\u201d.Do you live in Pakistan? How do you feel about the situation in your country? We want to hear from you. Tehrik-e-Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it was revenge for a ferocious army offensive called Zarb-e-Azb in tribal areas that has left an estimated 1,000 militants dead and tens of thousands displaced. There is a very real danger of spiraling violence as the Pakistan military, with its reputation for ruthlessness, seeks revenge for the dead children of military personnel. Share your thoughts anonymously by filling in the form below. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Peshawar school massacre: what does the future hold for Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-12-16T23:11:15Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Good morning folks, and welcome to the Morning Mail \u2013 sign up here to get it straight to your inbox every weekday morning.  Katrina Dawson a 38-year-old barrister and mother of three children, and Tori Johnson, the 34-year-old manager of the Lindt cafe, were named as the hostages who were killed during the siege in Sydney\u2019s Martin Place.Tony Abbott says there are questions to be answered about how \u201csick and disturbed\u201d gunman Man Haron Monis remained at largeExclusive: Inside the Sydney siege - hostages tell of horror in the cafe.\u201cWe\u2019re not getting out of here, none of us are. We are going to die here.\u201d UK prime minister David Cameron has paid tribute to the victims of attacks in Australia and Pakistan How the Australian media reported the Sydney siege, how newspapers around the world covered the Sydney siege on their front pages, and Rupert Murdoch criticised around the world for his tweet \u2018gloating\u2019 about the Daily Telegraph\u2019s coverage of the Sydney siege in the print edition.Visit our Sydney siege tag page for the Guardian\u2019s comprehensive coverage, with dozens of pieces including video, images and analysis. At least 141 people are dead \u2013 including 132 students \u2013 after attackers stormed a Peshawar school and started shooting children. Pakistan has responded to the school massacre with massive air strikes against the Taliban. Police say the siege is now over and five terrorists have been killed. Survivors have told of the terror, saying \u201cI saw death so close\u201d, and pictures from the attack show a desperate scene. The Taliban group behind the attack may be trying to prove its effectiveness after a series of splits, and we have a comment piece reiterating how this sickening massacre isn\u2019t about religion - it\u2019s about intimidation. See how the attack and Pakistan\u2019s response unfolded in our rolling coverage. Employment department staff have rejected a below-inflation pay offer, prompting employment minister Eric Abetz to warn wage rises could \u201conly be paid for through job losses\u201d. The governor general has stripped disgraced former Labor powerbroker Ebbie Obeid of his Order of Australia Medal. A police officer who was found guilty of assaulting Brazilian student Roberto Curti during his fatal arrest in Sydney\u2019s CBD has escaped a conviction. Last year Joe Hockey was trying his very best to make the economic situation look as bad as possible in order to lay the blame of the deficits on Labor. Now it\u2019s even worse, so it\u2019s only fitting his budget rhetoric has come back to haunt him, writes Greg Jericho. Russians left wondering whether the good times under Vladimir Putin are over as the rouble crashes to dramatic low amid frantic central bank rate rise.A federal judge has found president Barack Obama\u2019s new plan to ease the threat of deportation for 4.7 million undocumented immigrants violates the US constitution.Pennsylvania police have found the body of a man suspected of killing six members of his ex-wife\u2019s family.Jeb Bush, the brother of former US president George W Bush, says he is \u2018actively exploring\u2019 a run for the presidency in 2016.The people of Manus Island had no say in the decision to build a detention centre here. But, as this exclusive investigation reveals, the arrival of refugees from around the world \u2013 and the industry that feeds off them \u2013 has brought both economic boom and devastating consequences.Have an excellent day \u2013 and if you spot something I\u2019ve missed, let me know in the comments here or on Twitter @earleyedition.Get the Morning Mail direct to your inbox first thing every weekday by signing up here.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Sydney siege"], "title": "Morning Mail: Sydney siege, Pakistan school massacre, department of unemployment"},{"date": "2014-12-16T19:12:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There can be no worse or more barbaric stage in any conflict than when one side or the other deliberately kills the children of their enemies. The young students whose bloodied bodies, pathetically clad in their British-style school uniforms, were stretchered out of the army school in Peshawar on Tuesday, as their families stood by and wept, did not die as a result of \u201ccollateral damage\u201d.That dismal euphemism often covers the deaths of innocents. But at least such deaths are not willed. The Taliban militants who infiltrated the school went there with the express purpose of killing children. They were not in the city to attack military installations, police barracks, or even the officers whose children attended the school. They did not even have the scrap of an excuse which the attackers did in Beslan in 2004, that they were taking hostages in pursuit of supposedly just demands addressed to the Russian government. No, they went to Peshawar to kill kids, and they mowed them down until they themselves were mown down, or till the ammunition ran out and they escaped the scene of their crime by committing suicide.The attack did not of course come out of nowhere. Since August the Pakistani army has been on the offensive in Waziristan, chopping away at the north-western badlands where the Taliban is strong, and in Karachi, where it has been trying to dislodge the Taliban from areas of the city which they control. The attack on the school was therefore an act of revenge, as well as an attempt to terrorise the Pakistani government and armed forces into calling off or moderating these campaigns.It is highly unlikely to have that effect. The national revulsion at the school killings will surely reinforce the marked hostility toward the Taliban and other Islamist extremists which Pakistani public opinion displays. It will also undermine the already much discredited idea that there is, at least at this stage, a diplomatic solution to the conflict. The politicians \u2013 notably the ex-cricketer Imran Khan \u2013 who have in the past urged that course will find it hard to return to that theme. Mr Khan has unequivocally condemned the attack and postponed a nationwide protest against the government of Nawaz Sharif that his party, the Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf, was due to stage tomorrow. Mr Sharif offered the insurgents talks earlier this year, but there was little sincerity on either side. The Taliban\u2019s only potential concession was that their aims of a caliphate, sharia law, and the overthrow of the secular state could come in instalments \u2013 not much of a bargain to be had there.So Pakistan finally embarked on the serious war against extremism which it had largely avoided in the past. The resulting campaign is the latest act in the tragic drama of Pakistani politics. The armed forces and successive governments have played with fire for many years, tolerating, supporting and using Islamist extremists in pursuit of their foreign aims in Kashmir, Afghanistan and central Asia, and in their efforts to maintain an elusive equality with India. This double game has caused untold difficulties and suffering in neighbouring countries. Finally, and predictably, the trouble they had fomented abroad came home in what one respected analyst has called \u201cthe worst terrorist backlash in the entire region\u201d. The Peshawar massacre is proof enough of that.The army will surely now go after the Taliban with renewed vigour. But whether the double game is really over is another question. There are many Islamist groups and sub-groups. Managing and using them, dividing them into \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad,\u201d according to the needs of the moment, has been a way of life for the Pakistani security establishment. Optimists see a pattern emerging in which the new Afghan government, the Pakistani government and armed forces, and the United States, are closer to being genuinely united than they have ever been in the past, with the extremists unable in the future to take refuge in one country when things are not going well for them in the other. Others are doubtful, noting that using extremism has become a habit it will be hard to give up entirely. But that is the way Pakistan should go. The costs of the old policy have been demonstrated again and again, and the Peshawar school massacre has underlined them in the most horrific way.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "The Guardian view on the school killings in Pakistan | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-25T17:44:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An insurgent group known for its deadly attacks on US forces in Afghanistan has been targeted by Pakistani military aircraft in what is believed to be the first such strike on a group long accused of enjoying the secret backing of Pakistan\u2019s army.In what might herald a major shift in Pakistan\u2019s attitude to Afghanistan, military and intelligence officials said seven members of the Haqqani Network were among 20 militants killed by air strikes.Officials said the strikes, carried out by a jet and an attack helicopter, were launched against hideouts belonging to both the Haqqani Network and an allied group run by militant warlord Hafiz Gul Bahadur.The bases were in the Dattakhel area of North Waziristan, the tribal agency that for years has been a secure staging ground for militants launching attacks inside Afghanistan.Rahimullah Yousafzai, a veteran observer of the combustible borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan, cautioned that there was no way to verify whether the off-the-record claims made by intelligence officials were true.However, it was significant that they should want to take credit for killing Haqqani fighters.\u201cDefinitely if Haqqani Network people are killed that is really something the US and Afghan governments would like to hear,\u201d he said.Some of the Haqqani Network\u2019s daring and sophisticated attacks, including a day-long siege against the US embassy in Kabul, have been compared with special forces operations and enraged both Washington and Kabul. Last weekend, the bombing of a volleyball match in Afghanistan\u2019s Paktika province, which killed 57 spectators, was blamed by Afghan officials on the Haqqani Network.Even though Pakistan launched a major operation this summer to seize back control of North Waziristan, US officials were convinced the Haqqani Network was being spared while groups fighting against the Pakistani state were attacked.Earlier this month, an official report by the Pentagon accused Pakistan of using militant groups, including the Haqqani Network, as \u201cproxy forces to hedge against the loss of influence in Afghanistan and to counter India\u2019s superior military\u201d.Tuesday\u2019s development follows a dramatic thawing in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan, which culminated on 14 November with the visit of newly elected Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, to Islamabad]. Ghani claimed the talks had \u201covercome obstacles of 13 years in three days\u201d \u2013 a reference to the turbulent rule of his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, who deeply distrusted Pakistan.President Ghani made a series of major concessions to Pakistan, which Karzai always resisted, including an agreement to let Pakistan train and equip some Afghan soldiers.Islamabad, with its longstanding desire to limit the influence of arch-enemy India in Afghanistan, was also pleased by Ghani\u2019s decisions to turn down an offer of Indian military assistance.The two sides also agreed to set up a system to manage their joint border, a move Karzai resisted for fear of formally recognising the so-called Durand Line that Afghan nationalists claim gave away huge amounts of their territory when Britain drew it up in the 19th century.Diplomats say the Afghans also agreed to fight members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who have taken up sanctuary in eastern Afghanistan.On Tuesday, Pakistani intelligence sources also claimed that a US drone strike inside Afghan territory killed a number of TTP fighters and narrowly missed the movement\u2019s leader, Mullah Falzullah.Yousafzai said another reason for the targeting of Haqqani was its alliance with Hafiz Gul Bahadur, a militant leader who for years was protected by a formal pact with Pakistan in return for agreeing not to attack the state.The two sides have since fallen out and last week the group claimed responsibility for a deadly attack on security forces in Dattakhel that killed five soldiers including a senior officer.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Ashraf Ghani", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan air strikes target Haqqani insurgents"},{"date": "2014-11-14T23:33:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\u2018We nearly died getting this story,\u201d Alixandra Fazzina tells me calmly. The war artist turned award-winning photographer is flicking through the haunting images she took during her five years in Pakistan. Despite covering countries such as Somalia and Yemen \u2013 and being held hostage for four days by militiamen in Liberia \u2013 Fazzina says Pakistan is the most difficult place she has worked. And it is only now she has left that she can safely reveal many of the stories people told her.She is lingering over a picture of an 82-year-old woman praying. Sajda, she says, was tortured by the Pakistani army. Her village, close to the Afghan border, was on the frontline of the Taliban insurgency in the Swat valley, and when the fighting engulfed her home, the elderly woman was too frail to escape. \u201cShe had two bullet holes in her,\u201d Fazzina says, \u201cbut couldn\u2019t leave to see a doctor.\u201d When the 2009 military offensive against the Taliban began, Sajda was arrested by the army, who believed her son had joined the Taliban. Her home was destroyed and she was detained for seven months. \u201cShe was tortured,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cWe saw the marks on her back.\u201dThe photographer found her after being tipped off by a network of human rights lawyers and trekking to her remote village, accompanied by a young female translator. Dressed in a burqa and speaking only a little Pashto, Fazzina managed to disguise the fact that she was a foreigner, but the presence of two strangers still attracted attention in the isolated community. \u201cI think it\u2019s only because we were two women that we got away with being there,\u201d she says.But when night fell, they found themselves surrounded. \u201cIt was getting dark when the gunmen came,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cThere were probably about 40 or 50 of them.\u201dThe men watched the pair from the roofs of surrounding houses as they hurriedly left. \u201cWe had to walk away from the house with all these guns pointed at our backs,\u201d Fazzina remembers. \u201cWe thought we were going to get shot, but we didn\u2019t want to run in case it raised suspicion. My translator was praying the whole way.\u201dAfter walking across a valley and crossing a river, they finally reached their car and driver, whom they had left on a narrow mountain road. \u201cA military patrol came past and we thought, \u2018Phew, we are safe,\u2019\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cBut the next minute, insurgents with guns came out from behind the rocks and tried to stop the car as we sped away.\u201dIt was not her first brush with the Taliban. She points to a picture of two women in abayas, taken outside Al Asif Square in Karachi, a Taliban stronghold. She started photographing Afghan refugees there soon after arriving in Pakistan. \u201cApparently they had a meeting about me,\u201d Fazzina says as she describes being followed by Kalashnikov-wielding gunmen with kohl-rimmed eyes. \u201cThey said, \u2018Should we kidnap her? Shall we kill her?\u2019\u201d In the end, she says, \u201cthey obviously thought I was harmless\u201d.It\u2019s a mistake often made about the slight 40-year-old mother of one, and one she has come to rely on for protection. She is drawn to the stories of people caught up in conflicts, often ones that have been largely ignored by the rest of the world. This is why she was interested in Pakistan: the military conflict launched against insurgents there has barely registered with the outside world.On top of all this is the fear of crime \u2013kidnapping, for instance, is big business in Pakistan. Yet Fazzina counters these dangers not with armoured vehicles or bodyguards, but by remaining under the radar. She tells me (somewhat reluctantly) about a \u201cdressing-up box\u201d of clothes that, along with careful attention to local fashions and body language, help her to blend in. The quiet, personal nature of many of her photographs is testament to the hours she spends building a relationship with her subjects, through conversations and \u201cendless cups of tea\u201d; she followed some families for the whole five years she was in Pakistan. She talks with gratitude and admiration of her translator, Hina, who, with a PhD in human rights law, was as determined as Fazzina to tell the stories of the women they met.Her focus was on the women of Pakistan, she says, because they are often the most vulnerable to the upheavals caused by war and conflict. The army\u2019s 2009 offensive in the Swat valley resulted in the world\u2019s largest movement of refugees since the Rwandan genocide. As almost 3 million people fled, Fazzina heard stories of the mass kidnappings of 200 women. \u201cIt transpired this was as brides for Taliban fighters,\u201d she says. \u201cIt was very similar to what\u2019s going on in Iraq at the moment.\u201dDetermined to let the world know about the news, Fazzina tracked down some of the families whose girls had been taken, but found no one willing to talk. \u201cI have done stories about the rape of women in Afghanistan, but there it was reasonably easy to talk to the women because they thought it was an atrocity.\u201d In Pakistan, it was much more difficult, she says, because of conservative views about women\u2019s honour. \u201cOnce they talk about it, everyone knows and their family will not be able to get them married.\u201dEventually, after hearing of the death of a Taliban commander she knew had been involved in the kidnappings, she managed to track down his teenage widow. \u201cShe was a lovely, bubbly young girl, just a cool teenager, who had been going to school,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cShe said this marriage had screwed up her life. After the drone strike that killed her husband, she escaped. She wanted to go back to school, but she had a baby. She would never be able to marry again and she was only 16.\u201dFazzina believes the psychological trauma of the insurgency has taken a severe toll on Pakistan. \u201cI saw the country fall apart in the time I was there. It\u2019s like the whole country had gone silent. The Taliban have won in a lot of respects.\u201dDespite this, she says she would have remained in Pakistan if a crackdown against foreign NGOs and journalists had not seen her visa renewal refused. \u201cI fell in love with Pakistan,\u201d she says, simply. \u201cI don\u2019t think I have been anywhere that I have loved working so much. We were met with so much warmth. Despite everything, the people there have so much strength. Now when I watch the news from Pakistan, it breaks my heart that I am not there.\u201d\u2022 To hear Alixandra Fazzina talk more about her images from Pakistan, go to theguardian.com/video\u2022 This article was amended on 15 November 2014 to remove inaccuracies relating to music and a haram declaration, and personal material at the request of the subject.", "tags": ["Global development", "Pakistan", "Pakistan floods", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Women", "Life and style", "War reporting"], "title": "Caught in conflict: women in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-11-14T12:30:50Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The photojournalist Alixandra Fazzina has been collecting stories and photographs of women surviving conflict on the borders and in the cities of Pakistan for five years. The film of Alixandra\u2019s experiences is her view of Pakistan \u2013 and we would now like to find out perspectives of other people living and working there. Show us the Pakistan that we don\u2019t often see. Perhaps it\u2019s the extraordinary landscape or parts of cities that tourists don\u2019t often visit. We\u2019d also like you to tell us about your experiences of Pakistan, are they very different from what\u2019s shown in the media?It\u2019s important to take care when recording and sharing your content, as these images will be public on the GuardianWitness site. We understand that there may be cultural considerations in sharing photographs and videos , so please ensure that the content you upload isn\u2019t considered offensive to anyone in your community. You can share your photos, videos and perspectives by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pakistan holidays", "Asia"], "title": "Living in Pakistan: share your perspectives"},{"date": "2014-12-21T23:39:35Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan continued its retribution against terrorists on Sunday with the execution of four more prisoners.The deaths followed the executions of two other convicted terrorists on Friday amid seething public anger at the massacre of 148 people in the city of Peshawar last week.Syed Babar Ali, the superintendent of the district jail in Faisalabad, confirmed that Ghulam Sarwar, Akhlaque Ahmed, Rasheed Mehmood and Zubair Ahmed had been executed in the afternoon. The men were convicted for their role in a 2003 attempt to assassinate former military leader Pervez Musharraf with suicide car bombs.Prime minister Nawaz Sharif decided to abandon a six year unofficial moratorium on executions following the attack on Army Public School in Peshawar, though the decision imperils an EU trade deal.With many Pakistanis demanding public executions for terrorists, public anger at the slaughter has outweighed other concerns amid fears militants may launch jail break operations against prisons.Last week some newspapers carried graphic front page pictures of the corpses of Mohammad Aqeel and Arshad Mehmood after they became the first civilians to be hanged since 2008.Human rights groups are alarmed by the development given the notorious shortcomings of the country\u2019s criminal justice system and the tendency to convict a wide range of criminals under terrorism legislation.On Tuesday a man called Shafqat Hussain is scheduled to be executed for kidnap and murder, though he was just 14 at the time he was sentenced and has since retracted his confession, which he says was made after nine days of police torture.Clive Stafford Smith, director of the UK legal charity Reprieve, said there was a \u201creal risk\u201d an innocent man may be executed.\u201cWhile the slaughter of innocents in Peshawar was utterly reprehensible, it hardly solves the problem to kill someone who had nothing to do with it,\u201d he said.Research by Reprieve and the Justice Pakistan Project has found Pakistan\u2019s sweeping counter-terror laws have been abused in order to secure prosecutions. The report estimates that nearly 90% of those sentenced under terrorism laws \u201chad nothing to do with terror at all\u201d.\u201cInstead of being reserved for the most serious cases of recognisable acts of terror, the anti-terror legislation is in fact being used to try ordinary criminal cases,\u201d the report said.\u201cEither in a deliberate attempt to evade the procedural safeguards guaranteed by ordinary courts or due to the vague and overly broad definitions of \u2018terrorism\u2019 in the legislation.\u201dHuman Rights Watch also called for executions to be halted.\u201cPakistan\u2019s government has chosen to indulge in vengeful blood-lust instead of finding and prosecuting those responsible for the horrific Peshawar attack,\u201d said Phelim Kine of Human Rights Watch.\u201cThe government\u2019s death penalty spree is a craven politicized reaction to the Peshawar killings that will do nothing to bring the attackers to justice.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Human rights", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan hangs four more prisoners as execution campaign widens"},{"date": "2014-12-17T13:54:09Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\n\n1.54pm GMT\n13:54\n\nWe\u2019re going to bring this blog to close for now. Here\u2019s a summary of the latest developments: \n\n1.38pm GMT\n13:38\n\nThe Pakistani authorities have stated that the death toll from the attack now stands at 148 people. The number of students killed remains at 132. Another 121 students and three staff members were wounded in the assault.Lanterns have been lit for all 148 victims at a vigil in Karachi.Pakistan Youth Alliance and @khudipk lighting 148 flying lanterns to pay tribute to the martyrs of #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/i5GUyz5K7D\n\n1.27pm GMT\n13:27\n\nPakistan has shared \u201cvital intelligence\u201d with Afghanistan during the visit of army chief General Raheel Sharif to Kabul, according to military spokesman Asim Bajwal.Army #Chief lands back at Psr.Essential intelligence shared with Afgn.Common resolve;Terrorists will be eliminated from wherever they goA retired Afghan general claim edthe trip is a sham, according to AFP.General Atiqullah Amarkhail dismissed the trip as an attempt to distract attention from the failure to prevent the attack in the northwestern city of Peshawar. \u201cThe trip is no more than a manoeuvre by the Pakistanis to pressure the Afghan government and pretend those responsible for the deadly Peshawar attack are based in Afghan soil,\u201d said Amarkhail. \n\n1.10pm GMT\n13:10\n\nPakistan political rivals have agreed to come up with a national plan on tackling terrorism, in the wake of the Peshawar attack, Radio Pakistan reports.The leaders decided to form a Committee under the chairmanship of Interior Minister Nisar Ali Khan to prepare a National Plan of Action against terrorism within a week.The Committee will have one representative each from parliamentary and other political parties. Representatives of the Armed Forces and intelligence agencies will also be part of the Committee.The National Plan of Action would be presented before the national political leadership in seven days for approval. It will then be placed before the nation by national political and military leadership..The resolution announced that there will be no discrimination between good and bad Talibans and the war against terror will continue with the national spirit.#APC: #NawazSharif thanked all political leaders including Imran Khan for attending Conference http://t.co/MFMRJHOa4Q pic.twitter.com/IMgJT5RJ2hUpdated\nat 1.15pm GMT\n\n\n1.04pm GMT\n13:04\n\nThe Pakistani Taliban has posted photographs of six Islamic fighters they said took part in the Peshawar assault, AP confirms.In one photo, the militants are seen wearing army fatigues, standing with a local Taliban leader in what the statement claimed one of the Pakistani tribal regions.The Independent has more...Revealed: These are the men who massacred 132 innocent children #PeshawarAttack http://t.co/5RitHATVta pic.twitter.com/NQu1z9JEMX\n\n12.34pm GMT\n12:34\n\nAt his press conference in Peshawar, the prime minister announced there will no more distinction etween \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban.\u201cWe have resolved to continue the war against terrorism till the last terrorist is eliminated,\u201d he said according to the Express Tribune. Chatham House\u2019s Gareth Price has background on the distinction:The longer-standing complaint against Pakistan is that it picks and chooses between \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban. The TTP\u2014or factions thereof\u2014are defined as bad because it targets the Pakistani state. Those who hold similar ideologies but operate outside Pakistan, in Afghanistan and India, or even target Shias within Pakistan are tolerated.This partly reflects a hangover from the past, when Islamist groups in Kashmir and the Afghan Taliban were seen as useful instruments for Pakistan\u2019s foreign policy; the use of proxy forces by Pakistan goes back to its independence in 1947. It also reflects the weakness of civilian governments; many radical groups also undertake popular social functions such as health care, education and flood relief, which help to cover up the poor capabilities of the Pakistani state. In addition, there is a logic in Pakistan politicians\u2019 preferring that violence be displaced from Pakistan into Afghanistan, the path recently taken by the \u201cPunjabi Taliban\u201d in September this year.Pakistan\u2019s ambivalence toward the Afghan Taliban has also stemmed from a lack of belief in the solidity of the Afghan state.\n\n12.27pm GMT\n12:27\n\nImages of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif next to opposition leader Imran Khan at the all-party meeting in Peshawar have been broadcast on Pakistani TV. A Sight We Have Wished To See Since Past Four Months. I Appreciate Both. #PeshawarAttack #UnitedAgainstTTP pic.twitter.com/05c5wiNUaPNawaz announced that \u201cdialogue can resolve all sorts of issues,\u201d after inviting Imran for tea, the Express Tribune reported. Imran interupted to say: \u201cOur differences are not about our egos, it is about rigging.\u201d\n\n12.16pm GMT\n12:16\n\nHere\u2019s a summary of the latest developments:\n\n11.52am GMT\n11:52\n\nA suspected Taliban attack on a bank in Afghanistan\u2019s Helmand province, killed at least 10 people, AP reports citing policemen and officials.In the attack, in the provincial capital, Lashgar Gah, five suicide bombers raided the city\u2019s branch of the New Kabul Bank. One of the attackers blew himself up at the front entrance to allow the other three in, said Omer Zawaj, the spokesman for the provincial governor.Once inside, the other attackers fired at security forces, which arrived at the scene and surrounded the building, Zawaj said.Helmand police spokesman, Fareed Obaid, said three police officers were among those killed.\u201cThere are also 15 people wounded, including six members of the Afghan security forces,\u201d he said, adding that the rest of the insurgents were killed in the gunbattle.Afghanistan\u2019s war with the insurgents, whose leadership is based in Pakistan, has escalated in recent months, and angered President Ashraf Ghani who has vowed to bring peace to the country.The election of Ghani as president has led Afghanistan to shift course on the Taliban, according to Gareth Price senior research fellow at the foreign affairs thinktank Chatham House.In an article for Newsweek he writes: While his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, was quick to blame Pakistan for incidents in Afghanistan, Ghani has taken the view that stability in Afghanistan requires cooperation rather than confrontation with Pakistan, and he recently accepted Pakistan\u2019s long-standing offer to help train Afghanistan\u2019s military.But for Pakistan, meaningful cooperation would require Afghanistan to take action against Pakistan Taliban groups in Afghanistan. And earlier this month Afghan and US troops did exactly that: In one drone, attack nine members of the TTP were killed in Kunar province.In another sign of changing attitudes, in late November Pakistan took credit for targeting members of the Haqqani Network, a group linked to the Afghan Taliban. While the extent of its attack on the group cannot be verified, in the past the Haqqani Network appeared to have been spared the treatment meted out to the TTP and remained, in the words of U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, \u201ca veritable arm of Pakistan\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence agency.\u201d The attack in Peshawar is tragic and unlikely to be the last. But the region stands on the cusp of a potentially game-changing transformation in which the Afghan and Pakistan governments understand that their interests are best served working together rather than undermining each other.That the TTP felt the need to launch its most deadly attack at this juncture is likely to reflect its concern about what this could mean.\n\n11.29am GMT\n11:29\n\nAFP has more on the visit by Pakistan\u2019s military command to Kabul. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief General Raheel Sharif who was accompanied by the head of the Pakistan\u2019s main intelligence agency, the ISI, is set to meet Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and ISAF commander General John Campbell, according to a brief statement by the military. Some of the militants who attacked the army-run school in Peshawar Tuesday spoke in Arabic, a senior security official told AFP, which he said suggested that they had links over the border in Afghanistan.\u201cThe army chief is likely to take Afghan leadership on board on this issue,\u201d the security official said, adding that the handing over of Pakistani Taliban chief Mullah Fazlullah, who is believed to be hiding in northeastern Afghanistan, may also figure at the talks in Kabul.Afghanistan routinely accuses Pakistan of providing shelter within its borders to the Afghan Taliban, while Pakistan accuses Afghanistan of protecting members of the Pakistani Taliban.Analysts said the visit was intended to further cooperation against militants group along the countries\u2019 shared border. \u201cThe army chief is obviously interested that Tehrik-e-Taliban chief Maulana Fazlullah and his group is arrested and handed over to Pakistan or eliminated so that they do not use Afghan territory for launching attacks against Pakistan as happened in Peshawar on Tuesday,\u201d retired general and security analyst Talat Masood told AFP. \u201cGeneral Sharif wants to strengthen military-to-military and intelligence-to-intelligence level cooperation between the two countries otherwise sanctuaries in Afghanistan will be used against Pakistan,\u201d he added. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army and intelligence services are widely seen as being the driving force behind the country\u2019s defence and foreign policies. Updated\nat 11.30am GMT\n\n\n11.18am GMT\n11:18\n\nThe Pakistan Cricket Board has called off a cup final match in Muridke as a mark of respect, but a limited overs international between Pakistan and New Zealand in Abu Dhabi is due to go ahead despite calls for it to be postponed. There are plans to hold a two-minute silence at the match, and the proceeds will be donated to families of the victims. Updated\nat 11.24am GMT\n\n\n11.04am GMT\n11:04\n\nMore grim images from inside the school have emerged, showing classrooms riddled with bullets and carpets soaked in blood. \n\n10.52am GMT\n10:52\n\nPrime minister Nawas Sharif has vowed to push ahead with an army offensive against the Taliban in Pakitan or Tehrik-e-Taliban. The group claimed responsibility for the attack on Tuesday, claiming it was revenge for an offensive launched against it in the summer named Zarb-e-Azb.Speaking at an all party meeting in Peshawar today Sharif said Zarb-e-Azb \u201cis successfully moving forward and Pakistan was making efforts for peace in the region\u201d, according to the Pakistan Radio. It added:The prime minister stressed that the nation is waging jihad against terrorism and this mission will not be left unaccomplished.He recalled that the government started dialogue with militants after evolving consensus of all political parties. But the government was left with no other option but to launch military operation against terrorists due to their intransigence.\n\n10.41am GMT\n10:41\n\nOvernight, the body of the school principal, Tahira Qazi, was found among the debris, AP reports. Qazi was inside her office when the militants made their way into the administration building 20 meters from the auditorium. She had ran and locked herself into the bathroom but the attackers threw a grenade inside, through a vent, and killed her, according to army spokesman Major General Asim Bajwa. There have been widespread tributes to Qazi.my 2 heroes ! martyred miss tahira qazi (my teacher/principal) n my nephew abdullah ,brave survivor #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/OqJiG65vJoMrs.Tahira Qazi, Principal Army Public School with her son & our uni friend Ahmad Qazi on his graduation. RIP Mam :'( pic.twitter.com/Tb0JlZNk81Tribute to this Brave Lady Principal APS Tahira Qazi who was Burnt Alive by TTP Rascals. Pray for Her #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/ih4xSBGh46\n\n10.21am GMT\n10:21\n\nImages of some of the victims of the attack have been published, notes Omar Quraishi, an editor at the Express Tribune. Our future murdered -- some of the Peshawar school victims pic.twitter.com/bpFCT8KuEJ\n\n10.15am GMT\n10:15\n\nThe Pakistan Taliban has identified the militants who carried out the attack on the school, according to reporter Harald Doornbos.#break In statement, Pakistani taliban (TTP) claims these 6 men are behind #PeshawarAttack,7th man is commander: pic.twitter.com/PQrk2xXEks", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Malala Yousafzai", "Afghanistan", "World news", "India"], "title": "Pakistan school attack: political rivals agree anti-terrorism plan"},{"date": "2014-12-17T17:50:11Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Peshawar school massacre that left 132 children and nine staff dead on Tuesday provoked horror and fierce international condemnation.Leaders around the world, from Indian prime minister Narendra Modi to US president Barack Obama, condemned the attack. Pakistani Nobel peace prize winner Malala Yousafzai, who also survived a Taliban attack, said she was \u201cheartbroken by this senseless and cold-blooded act of terror\u201d.Do you live in Pakistan? How do you feel about the situation in your country? We want to hear from you. Tehrik-e-Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it was revenge for a ferocious army offensive called Zarb-e-Azb in tribal areas that has left an estimated 1,000 militants dead and tens of thousands displaced. There is a very real danger of spiraling violence as the Pakistan military, with its reputation for ruthlessness, seeks revenge for the dead children of military personnel. Share your thoughts anonymously by filling in the form below. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Peshawar school massacre: what does the future hold for Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-12-16T23:11:15Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Good morning folks, and welcome to the Morning Mail \u2013 sign up here to get it straight to your inbox every weekday morning.  Katrina Dawson a 38-year-old barrister and mother of three children, and Tori Johnson, the 34-year-old manager of the Lindt cafe, were named as the hostages who were killed during the siege in Sydney\u2019s Martin Place.Tony Abbott says there are questions to be answered about how \u201csick and disturbed\u201d gunman Man Haron Monis remained at largeExclusive: Inside the Sydney siege - hostages tell of horror in the cafe.\u201cWe\u2019re not getting out of here, none of us are. We are going to die here.\u201d UK prime minister David Cameron has paid tribute to the victims of attacks in Australia and Pakistan How the Australian media reported the Sydney siege, how newspapers around the world covered the Sydney siege on their front pages, and Rupert Murdoch criticised around the world for his tweet \u2018gloating\u2019 about the Daily Telegraph\u2019s coverage of the Sydney siege in the print edition.Visit our Sydney siege tag page for the Guardian\u2019s comprehensive coverage, with dozens of pieces including video, images and analysis. At least 141 people are dead \u2013 including 132 students \u2013 after attackers stormed a Peshawar school and started shooting children. Pakistan has responded to the school massacre with massive air strikes against the Taliban. Police say the siege is now over and five terrorists have been killed. Survivors have told of the terror, saying \u201cI saw death so close\u201d, and pictures from the attack show a desperate scene. The Taliban group behind the attack may be trying to prove its effectiveness after a series of splits, and we have a comment piece reiterating how this sickening massacre isn\u2019t about religion - it\u2019s about intimidation. See how the attack and Pakistan\u2019s response unfolded in our rolling coverage. Employment department staff have rejected a below-inflation pay offer, prompting employment minister Eric Abetz to warn wage rises could \u201conly be paid for through job losses\u201d. The governor general has stripped disgraced former Labor powerbroker Ebbie Obeid of his Order of Australia Medal. A police officer who was found guilty of assaulting Brazilian student Roberto Curti during his fatal arrest in Sydney\u2019s CBD has escaped a conviction. Last year Joe Hockey was trying his very best to make the economic situation look as bad as possible in order to lay the blame of the deficits on Labor. Now it\u2019s even worse, so it\u2019s only fitting his budget rhetoric has come back to haunt him, writes Greg Jericho. Russians left wondering whether the good times under Vladimir Putin are over as the rouble crashes to dramatic low amid frantic central bank rate rise.A federal judge has found president Barack Obama\u2019s new plan to ease the threat of deportation for 4.7 million undocumented immigrants violates the US constitution.Pennsylvania police have found the body of a man suspected of killing six members of his ex-wife\u2019s family.Jeb Bush, the brother of former US president George W Bush, says he is \u2018actively exploring\u2019 a run for the presidency in 2016.The people of Manus Island had no say in the decision to build a detention centre here. But, as this exclusive investigation reveals, the arrival of refugees from around the world \u2013 and the industry that feeds off them \u2013 has brought both economic boom and devastating consequences.Have an excellent day \u2013 and if you spot something I\u2019ve missed, let me know in the comments here or on Twitter @earleyedition.Get the Morning Mail direct to your inbox first thing every weekday by signing up here.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Sydney siege"], "title": "Morning Mail: Sydney siege, Pakistan school massacre, department of unemployment"},{"date": "2014-12-16T19:12:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There can be no worse or more barbaric stage in any conflict than when one side or the other deliberately kills the children of their enemies. The young students whose bloodied bodies, pathetically clad in their British-style school uniforms, were stretchered out of the army school in Peshawar on Tuesday, as their families stood by and wept, did not die as a result of \u201ccollateral damage\u201d.That dismal euphemism often covers the deaths of innocents. But at least such deaths are not willed. The Taliban militants who infiltrated the school went there with the express purpose of killing children. They were not in the city to attack military installations, police barracks, or even the officers whose children attended the school. They did not even have the scrap of an excuse which the attackers did in Beslan in 2004, that they were taking hostages in pursuit of supposedly just demands addressed to the Russian government. No, they went to Peshawar to kill kids, and they mowed them down until they themselves were mown down, or till the ammunition ran out and they escaped the scene of their crime by committing suicide.The attack did not of course come out of nowhere. Since August the Pakistani army has been on the offensive in Waziristan, chopping away at the north-western badlands where the Taliban is strong, and in Karachi, where it has been trying to dislodge the Taliban from areas of the city which they control. The attack on the school was therefore an act of revenge, as well as an attempt to terrorise the Pakistani government and armed forces into calling off or moderating these campaigns.It is highly unlikely to have that effect. The national revulsion at the school killings will surely reinforce the marked hostility toward the Taliban and other Islamist extremists which Pakistani public opinion displays. It will also undermine the already much discredited idea that there is, at least at this stage, a diplomatic solution to the conflict. The politicians \u2013 notably the ex-cricketer Imran Khan \u2013 who have in the past urged that course will find it hard to return to that theme. Mr Khan has unequivocally condemned the attack and postponed a nationwide protest against the government of Nawaz Sharif that his party, the Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf, was due to stage tomorrow. Mr Sharif offered the insurgents talks earlier this year, but there was little sincerity on either side. The Taliban\u2019s only potential concession was that their aims of a caliphate, sharia law, and the overthrow of the secular state could come in instalments \u2013 not much of a bargain to be had there.So Pakistan finally embarked on the serious war against extremism which it had largely avoided in the past. The resulting campaign is the latest act in the tragic drama of Pakistani politics. The armed forces and successive governments have played with fire for many years, tolerating, supporting and using Islamist extremists in pursuit of their foreign aims in Kashmir, Afghanistan and central Asia, and in their efforts to maintain an elusive equality with India. This double game has caused untold difficulties and suffering in neighbouring countries. Finally, and predictably, the trouble they had fomented abroad came home in what one respected analyst has called \u201cthe worst terrorist backlash in the entire region\u201d. The Peshawar massacre is proof enough of that.The army will surely now go after the Taliban with renewed vigour. But whether the double game is really over is another question. There are many Islamist groups and sub-groups. Managing and using them, dividing them into \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad,\u201d according to the needs of the moment, has been a way of life for the Pakistani security establishment. Optimists see a pattern emerging in which the new Afghan government, the Pakistani government and armed forces, and the United States, are closer to being genuinely united than they have ever been in the past, with the extremists unable in the future to take refuge in one country when things are not going well for them in the other. Others are doubtful, noting that using extremism has become a habit it will be hard to give up entirely. But that is the way Pakistan should go. The costs of the old policy have been demonstrated again and again, and the Peshawar school massacre has underlined them in the most horrific way.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "The Guardian view on the school killings in Pakistan | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-11T18:25:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With its shiny new articulated buses, freshly dug underpasses and dedicated flyovers, Islamabad\u2019s new public transport system is supposed to be a symbol of a government that gets big things done.But as a December deadline approaches before thousands of civil servants supposedly start taking the 15-mile Metro Bus journey for their commute into the heart of Pakistan\u2019s capital, the final section of the route along the city\u2019s main avenue is a mess of giant holes and ripped up concrete.Frantic construction work on the \u00a3265m scheme ground to a halt in August when thousands of anti-government protesters, led by opposition politician Imran Khan and a cleric called Tahir-ul-Qadri, flooded into the city.It is not just an important project that has been held up. The protesters also succeeded in paralysing prime minister Nawaz Sharif\u2019s government.The industrialist won a landslide victory in 2013 with promises of reviving a dying economy, forcing a meddling army to finally accept the authority of elected civilians, and making peace with India. More than 18 months later and every part of Sharif\u2019s ambitious agenda is seriously off track.India has responded to Sharif\u2019s peace overtures with an unprecedented upsurge in cross-border firing. At home the government has been badly bruised by ferocious disagreements with the military, which earlier in the year succeeded in forcing the closure of one of country\u2019s most popular private news channels, against the government\u2019s will.And international investors have been seriously put off by the sight of thousands of protesters overwhelming the government quarter of the capital and smashing their way into the grounds of parliament in late August.\u201cBefore the protests we had a brilliant story to tell about Pakistan,\u201d said Mohammad Zubair Umar, chairman of the privatisation commission.Last year, 2013, had been a turning point for Pakistan, he said, pointing out that it was the first time a government had survived a full five-year term without being ousted in an army-backed coup. It also saw the first successful transfer of power to another elected government.\u201cWe told investors that we now had the kind of political stability Pakistan never witnessed in its first 60 years,\u201d Umar said.But many observers feared Pakistan might be reverting to type when Khan descended on Islamabad to protest against the 2013 election, which he claims was stolen from him \u2013 something independent election observers are highly sceptical about.Multimillion-dollar transactions to offload shares in the country\u2019s Oil and Gas Development Company had to be postponed \u2013 foreign lawyers and financial advisers stayed clear of the country, let alone Umar\u2019s office, which overlooks the parade ground Khan has taken over for his sit-in.But despite the damage done, Sharif is determined to regain the initiative. On 4 November he tried to inject some energy into the government\u2019s effort to eradicate polio, which Pakistan has struggled to bring under control. And on Friday he jetted off for a visit to Beijing following the deep embarrassment caused by the decision of China\u2019s president, Xi Jinping, to cancel a trip to Islamabad in the wake of the protests.Sharif has told his cabinet to press on with implementing unpopular decisions, including weaning the public off unaffordable electricity subsidies as part of an effort to end rolling power blackouts that have badly stunted economic growth.\u201cHis political room to manoeuvre has narrowed and everything that was hard, on the economic reform programme, has got harder,\u201d said one diplomat.And yet Sharif is showing no sign of making life easier for himself by appeasing the army, which was driven to distraction last year by an extreme act of provocation: the government\u2019s historic decision to try a former army chief, Pervez Musharraf, for treason.Allies of the prime minister say he has no desire to let off the hook the coup leader who ousted him from an earlier period as prime minister in 1999.Indeed, Sharif may even be emboldened by the ultimate failure of Khan\u2019s street protests, which the former cricket star claimed would lead to the swift ousting of Sharif.Conditions had seemed perfect for the army to demand Sharif step down in early September when thousands of protesters besieged the prime minister\u2019s house and even, briefly, seized control of the state broadcaster.But Sharif survived when all of Pakistan\u2019s politicians \u2013 except those loyal to Khan \u2013 appeared at a dramatic joint sitting of parliament to give their support to the prime minister.Even though some protesters remain on the streets and Khan is threatening another big rally on 30 November, Umar says the crisis is in effect over.\u201cA similar crisis just 10 years ago would have forced out the government,\u201d he said. \u201cThe fact that parliament supported him proves Pakistan has changed.\u201dSharif has ordered an acceleration of an already ambitious privatisation programme, including a restructuring and sell-off of the state carrier Pakistan International Airlines, which will have to shed much of its large workforce.\u201cI was surprised because there are definitely some in the government who don\u2019t think we should be opening up new fronts,\u201d Umar said.\u201cBut if you don\u2019t take these difficult decisions then what is the other option \u2013 just sitting like a lame duck prime minister and not doing anything?\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Imran Khan", "Pervez Musharraf"], "title": "Nawaz Sharif\u2019s government battles to regain the initiative in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-11-25T17:44:01Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An insurgent group known for its deadly attacks on US forces in Afghanistan has been targeted by Pakistani military aircraft in what is believed to be the first such strike on a group long accused of enjoying the secret backing of Pakistan\u2019s army.In what might herald a major shift in Pakistan\u2019s attitude to Afghanistan, military and intelligence officials said seven members of the Haqqani Network were among 20 militants killed by air strikes.Officials said the strikes, carried out by a jet and an attack helicopter, were launched against hideouts belonging to both the Haqqani Network and an allied group run by militant warlord Hafiz Gul Bahadur.The bases were in the Dattakhel area of North Waziristan, the tribal agency that for years has been a secure staging ground for militants launching attacks inside Afghanistan.Rahimullah Yousafzai, a veteran observer of the combustible borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan, cautioned that there was no way to verify whether the off-the-record claims made by intelligence officials were true.However, it was significant that they should want to take credit for killing Haqqani fighters.\u201cDefinitely if Haqqani Network people are killed that is really something the US and Afghan governments would like to hear,\u201d he said.Some of the Haqqani Network\u2019s daring and sophisticated attacks, including a day-long siege against the US embassy in Kabul, have been compared with special forces operations and enraged both Washington and Kabul. Last weekend, the bombing of a volleyball match in Afghanistan\u2019s Paktika province, which killed 57 spectators, was blamed by Afghan officials on the Haqqani Network.Even though Pakistan launched a major operation this summer to seize back control of North Waziristan, US officials were convinced the Haqqani Network was being spared while groups fighting against the Pakistani state were attacked.Earlier this month, an official report by the Pentagon accused Pakistan of using militant groups, including the Haqqani Network, as \u201cproxy forces to hedge against the loss of influence in Afghanistan and to counter India\u2019s superior military\u201d.Tuesday\u2019s development follows a dramatic thawing in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan, which culminated on 14 November with the visit of newly elected Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, to Islamabad]. Ghani claimed the talks had \u201covercome obstacles of 13 years in three days\u201d \u2013 a reference to the turbulent rule of his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, who deeply distrusted Pakistan.President Ghani made a series of major concessions to Pakistan, which Karzai always resisted, including an agreement to let Pakistan train and equip some Afghan soldiers.Islamabad, with its longstanding desire to limit the influence of arch-enemy India in Afghanistan, was also pleased by Ghani\u2019s decisions to turn down an offer of Indian military assistance.The two sides also agreed to set up a system to manage their joint border, a move Karzai resisted for fear of formally recognising the so-called Durand Line that Afghan nationalists claim gave away huge amounts of their territory when Britain drew it up in the 19th century.Diplomats say the Afghans also agreed to fight members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who have taken up sanctuary in eastern Afghanistan.On Tuesday, Pakistani intelligence sources also claimed that a US drone strike inside Afghan territory killed a number of TTP fighters and narrowly missed the movement\u2019s leader, Mullah Falzullah.Yousafzai said another reason for the targeting of Haqqani was its alliance with Hafiz Gul Bahadur, a militant leader who for years was protected by a formal pact with Pakistan in return for agreeing not to attack the state.The two sides have since fallen out and last week the group claimed responsibility for a deadly attack on security forces in Dattakhel that killed five soldiers including a senior officer.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Ashraf Ghani", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan air strikes target Haqqani insurgents"},{"date": "2014-11-14T23:33:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\u2018We nearly died getting this story,\u201d Alixandra Fazzina tells me calmly. The war artist turned award-winning photographer is flicking through the haunting images she took during her five years in Pakistan. Despite covering countries such as Somalia and Yemen \u2013 and being held hostage for four days by militiamen in Liberia \u2013 Fazzina says Pakistan is the most difficult place she has worked. And it is only now she has left that she can safely reveal many of the stories people told her.She is lingering over a picture of an 82-year-old woman praying. Sajda, she says, was tortured by the Pakistani army. Her village, close to the Afghan border, was on the frontline of the Taliban insurgency in the Swat valley, and when the fighting engulfed her home, the elderly woman was too frail to escape. \u201cShe had two bullet holes in her,\u201d Fazzina says, \u201cbut couldn\u2019t leave to see a doctor.\u201d When the 2009 military offensive against the Taliban began, Sajda was arrested by the army, who believed her son had joined the Taliban. Her home was destroyed and she was detained for seven months. \u201cShe was tortured,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cWe saw the marks on her back.\u201dThe photographer found her after being tipped off by a network of human rights lawyers and trekking to her remote village, accompanied by a young female translator. Dressed in a burqa and speaking only a little Pashto, Fazzina managed to disguise the fact that she was a foreigner, but the presence of two strangers still attracted attention in the isolated community. \u201cI think it\u2019s only because we were two women that we got away with being there,\u201d she says.But when night fell, they found themselves surrounded. \u201cIt was getting dark when the gunmen came,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cThere were probably about 40 or 50 of them.\u201dThe men watched the pair from the roofs of surrounding houses as they hurriedly left. \u201cWe had to walk away from the house with all these guns pointed at our backs,\u201d Fazzina remembers. \u201cWe thought we were going to get shot, but we didn\u2019t want to run in case it raised suspicion. My translator was praying the whole way.\u201dAfter walking across a valley and crossing a river, they finally reached their car and driver, whom they had left on a narrow mountain road. \u201cA military patrol came past and we thought, \u2018Phew, we are safe,\u2019\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cBut the next minute, insurgents with guns came out from behind the rocks and tried to stop the car as we sped away.\u201dIt was not her first brush with the Taliban. She points to a picture of two women in abayas, taken outside Al Asif Square in Karachi, a Taliban stronghold. She started photographing Afghan refugees there soon after arriving in Pakistan. \u201cApparently they had a meeting about me,\u201d Fazzina says as she describes being followed by Kalashnikov-wielding gunmen with kohl-rimmed eyes. \u201cThey said, \u2018Should we kidnap her? Shall we kill her?\u2019\u201d In the end, she says, \u201cthey obviously thought I was harmless\u201d.It\u2019s a mistake often made about the slight 40-year-old mother of one, and one she has come to rely on for protection. She is drawn to the stories of people caught up in conflicts, often ones that have been largely ignored by the rest of the world. This is why she was interested in Pakistan: the military conflict launched against insurgents there has barely registered with the outside world.On top of all this is the fear of crime \u2013kidnapping, for instance, is big business in Pakistan. Yet Fazzina counters these dangers not with armoured vehicles or bodyguards, but by remaining under the radar. She tells me (somewhat reluctantly) about a \u201cdressing-up box\u201d of clothes that, along with careful attention to local fashions and body language, help her to blend in. The quiet, personal nature of many of her photographs is testament to the hours she spends building a relationship with her subjects, through conversations and \u201cendless cups of tea\u201d; she followed some families for the whole five years she was in Pakistan. She talks with gratitude and admiration of her translator, Hina, who, with a PhD in human rights law, was as determined as Fazzina to tell the stories of the women they met.Her focus was on the women of Pakistan, she says, because they are often the most vulnerable to the upheavals caused by war and conflict. The army\u2019s 2009 offensive in the Swat valley resulted in the world\u2019s largest movement of refugees since the Rwandan genocide. As almost 3 million people fled, Fazzina heard stories of the mass kidnappings of 200 women. \u201cIt transpired this was as brides for Taliban fighters,\u201d she says. \u201cIt was very similar to what\u2019s going on in Iraq at the moment.\u201dDetermined to let the world know about the news, Fazzina tracked down some of the families whose girls had been taken, but found no one willing to talk. \u201cI have done stories about the rape of women in Afghanistan, but there it was reasonably easy to talk to the women because they thought it was an atrocity.\u201d In Pakistan, it was much more difficult, she says, because of conservative views about women\u2019s honour. \u201cOnce they talk about it, everyone knows and their family will not be able to get them married.\u201dEventually, after hearing of the death of a Taliban commander she knew had been involved in the kidnappings, she managed to track down his teenage widow. \u201cShe was a lovely, bubbly young girl, just a cool teenager, who had been going to school,\u201d Fazzina says. \u201cShe said this marriage had screwed up her life. After the drone strike that killed her husband, she escaped. She wanted to go back to school, but she had a baby. She would never be able to marry again and she was only 16.\u201dFazzina believes the psychological trauma of the insurgency has taken a severe toll on Pakistan. \u201cI saw the country fall apart in the time I was there. It\u2019s like the whole country had gone silent. The Taliban have won in a lot of respects.\u201dDespite this, she says she would have remained in Pakistan if a crackdown against foreign NGOs and journalists had not seen her visa renewal refused. \u201cI fell in love with Pakistan,\u201d she says, simply. \u201cI don\u2019t think I have been anywhere that I have loved working so much. We were met with so much warmth. Despite everything, the people there have so much strength. Now when I watch the news from Pakistan, it breaks my heart that I am not there.\u201d\u2022 To hear Alixandra Fazzina talk more about her images from Pakistan, go to theguardian.com/video\u2022 This article was amended on 15 November 2014 to remove inaccuracies relating to music and a haram declaration, and personal material at the request of the subject.", "tags": ["Global development", "Pakistan", "Pakistan floods", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Women", "Life and style", "War reporting"], "title": "Caught in conflict: women in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-11-14T12:30:50Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The photojournalist Alixandra Fazzina has been collecting stories and photographs of women surviving conflict on the borders and in the cities of Pakistan for five years. The film of Alixandra\u2019s experiences is her view of Pakistan \u2013 and we would now like to find out perspectives of other people living and working there. Show us the Pakistan that we don\u2019t often see. Perhaps it\u2019s the extraordinary landscape or parts of cities that tourists don\u2019t often visit. We\u2019d also like you to tell us about your experiences of Pakistan, are they very different from what\u2019s shown in the media?It\u2019s important to take care when recording and sharing your content, as these images will be public on the GuardianWitness site. We understand that there may be cultural considerations in sharing photographs and videos , so please ensure that the content you upload isn\u2019t considered offensive to anyone in your community. You can share your photos, videos and perspectives by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Pakistan holidays", "Asia"], "title": "Living in Pakistan: share your perspectives"},{"date": "2014-12-21T23:39:35Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan continued its retribution against terrorists on Sunday with the execution of four more prisoners.The deaths followed the executions of two other convicted terrorists on Friday amid seething public anger at the massacre of 148 people in the city of Peshawar last week.Syed Babar Ali, the superintendent of the district jail in Faisalabad, confirmed that Ghulam Sarwar, Akhlaque Ahmed, Rasheed Mehmood and Zubair Ahmed had been executed in the afternoon. The men were convicted for their role in a 2003 attempt to assassinate former military leader Pervez Musharraf with suicide car bombs.Prime minister Nawaz Sharif decided to abandon a six year unofficial moratorium on executions following the attack on Army Public School in Peshawar, though the decision imperils an EU trade deal.With many Pakistanis demanding public executions for terrorists, public anger at the slaughter has outweighed other concerns amid fears militants may launch jail break operations against prisons.Last week some newspapers carried graphic front page pictures of the corpses of Mohammad Aqeel and Arshad Mehmood after they became the first civilians to be hanged since 2008.Human rights groups are alarmed by the development given the notorious shortcomings of the country\u2019s criminal justice system and the tendency to convict a wide range of criminals under terrorism legislation.On Tuesday a man called Shafqat Hussain is scheduled to be executed for kidnap and murder, though he was just 14 at the time he was sentenced and has since retracted his confession, which he says was made after nine days of police torture.Clive Stafford Smith, director of the UK legal charity Reprieve, said there was a \u201creal risk\u201d an innocent man may be executed.\u201cWhile the slaughter of innocents in Peshawar was utterly reprehensible, it hardly solves the problem to kill someone who had nothing to do with it,\u201d he said.Research by Reprieve and the Justice Pakistan Project has found Pakistan\u2019s sweeping counter-terror laws have been abused in order to secure prosecutions. The report estimates that nearly 90% of those sentenced under terrorism laws \u201chad nothing to do with terror at all\u201d.\u201cInstead of being reserved for the most serious cases of recognisable acts of terror, the anti-terror legislation is in fact being used to try ordinary criminal cases,\u201d the report said.\u201cEither in a deliberate attempt to evade the procedural safeguards guaranteed by ordinary courts or due to the vague and overly broad definitions of \u2018terrorism\u2019 in the legislation.\u201dHuman Rights Watch also called for executions to be halted.\u201cPakistan\u2019s government has chosen to indulge in vengeful blood-lust instead of finding and prosecuting those responsible for the horrific Peshawar attack,\u201d said Phelim Kine of Human Rights Watch.\u201cThe government\u2019s death penalty spree is a craven politicized reaction to the Peshawar killings that will do nothing to bring the attackers to justice.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Human rights", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan hangs four more prisoners as execution campaign widens"},{"date": "2014-12-17T13:54:09Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "\n\n1.54pm GMT\n13:54\n\nWe\u2019re going to bring this blog to close for now. Here\u2019s a summary of the latest developments: \n\n1.38pm GMT\n13:38\n\nThe Pakistani authorities have stated that the death toll from the attack now stands at 148 people. The number of students killed remains at 132. Another 121 students and three staff members were wounded in the assault.Lanterns have been lit for all 148 victims at a vigil in Karachi.Pakistan Youth Alliance and @khudipk lighting 148 flying lanterns to pay tribute to the martyrs of #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/i5GUyz5K7D\n\n1.27pm GMT\n13:27\n\nPakistan has shared \u201cvital intelligence\u201d with Afghanistan during the visit of army chief General Raheel Sharif to Kabul, according to military spokesman Asim Bajwal.Army #Chief lands back at Psr.Essential intelligence shared with Afgn.Common resolve;Terrorists will be eliminated from wherever they goA retired Afghan general claim edthe trip is a sham, according to AFP.General Atiqullah Amarkhail dismissed the trip as an attempt to distract attention from the failure to prevent the attack in the northwestern city of Peshawar. \u201cThe trip is no more than a manoeuvre by the Pakistanis to pressure the Afghan government and pretend those responsible for the deadly Peshawar attack are based in Afghan soil,\u201d said Amarkhail. \n\n1.10pm GMT\n13:10\n\nPakistan political rivals have agreed to come up with a national plan on tackling terrorism, in the wake of the Peshawar attack, Radio Pakistan reports.The leaders decided to form a Committee under the chairmanship of Interior Minister Nisar Ali Khan to prepare a National Plan of Action against terrorism within a week.The Committee will have one representative each from parliamentary and other political parties. Representatives of the Armed Forces and intelligence agencies will also be part of the Committee.The National Plan of Action would be presented before the national political leadership in seven days for approval. It will then be placed before the nation by national political and military leadership..The resolution announced that there will be no discrimination between good and bad Talibans and the war against terror will continue with the national spirit.#APC: #NawazSharif thanked all political leaders including Imran Khan for attending Conference http://t.co/MFMRJHOa4Q pic.twitter.com/IMgJT5RJ2hUpdated\nat 1.15pm GMT\n\n\n1.04pm GMT\n13:04\n\nThe Pakistani Taliban has posted photographs of six Islamic fighters they said took part in the Peshawar assault, AP confirms.In one photo, the militants are seen wearing army fatigues, standing with a local Taliban leader in what the statement claimed one of the Pakistani tribal regions.The Independent has more...Revealed: These are the men who massacred 132 innocent children #PeshawarAttack http://t.co/5RitHATVta pic.twitter.com/NQu1z9JEMX\n\n12.34pm GMT\n12:34\n\nAt his press conference in Peshawar, the prime minister announced there will no more distinction etween \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban.\u201cWe have resolved to continue the war against terrorism till the last terrorist is eliminated,\u201d he said according to the Express Tribune. Chatham House\u2019s Gareth Price has background on the distinction:The longer-standing complaint against Pakistan is that it picks and chooses between \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad\u201d Taliban. The TTP\u2014or factions thereof\u2014are defined as bad because it targets the Pakistani state. Those who hold similar ideologies but operate outside Pakistan, in Afghanistan and India, or even target Shias within Pakistan are tolerated.This partly reflects a hangover from the past, when Islamist groups in Kashmir and the Afghan Taliban were seen as useful instruments for Pakistan\u2019s foreign policy; the use of proxy forces by Pakistan goes back to its independence in 1947. It also reflects the weakness of civilian governments; many radical groups also undertake popular social functions such as health care, education and flood relief, which help to cover up the poor capabilities of the Pakistani state. In addition, there is a logic in Pakistan politicians\u2019 preferring that violence be displaced from Pakistan into Afghanistan, the path recently taken by the \u201cPunjabi Taliban\u201d in September this year.Pakistan\u2019s ambivalence toward the Afghan Taliban has also stemmed from a lack of belief in the solidity of the Afghan state.\n\n12.27pm GMT\n12:27\n\nImages of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif next to opposition leader Imran Khan at the all-party meeting in Peshawar have been broadcast on Pakistani TV. A Sight We Have Wished To See Since Past Four Months. I Appreciate Both. #PeshawarAttack #UnitedAgainstTTP pic.twitter.com/05c5wiNUaPNawaz announced that \u201cdialogue can resolve all sorts of issues,\u201d after inviting Imran for tea, the Express Tribune reported. Imran interupted to say: \u201cOur differences are not about our egos, it is about rigging.\u201d\n\n12.16pm GMT\n12:16\n\nHere\u2019s a summary of the latest developments:\n\n11.52am GMT\n11:52\n\nA suspected Taliban attack on a bank in Afghanistan\u2019s Helmand province, killed at least 10 people, AP reports citing policemen and officials.In the attack, in the provincial capital, Lashgar Gah, five suicide bombers raided the city\u2019s branch of the New Kabul Bank. One of the attackers blew himself up at the front entrance to allow the other three in, said Omer Zawaj, the spokesman for the provincial governor.Once inside, the other attackers fired at security forces, which arrived at the scene and surrounded the building, Zawaj said.Helmand police spokesman, Fareed Obaid, said three police officers were among those killed.\u201cThere are also 15 people wounded, including six members of the Afghan security forces,\u201d he said, adding that the rest of the insurgents were killed in the gunbattle.Afghanistan\u2019s war with the insurgents, whose leadership is based in Pakistan, has escalated in recent months, and angered President Ashraf Ghani who has vowed to bring peace to the country.The election of Ghani as president has led Afghanistan to shift course on the Taliban, according to Gareth Price senior research fellow at the foreign affairs thinktank Chatham House.In an article for Newsweek he writes: While his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, was quick to blame Pakistan for incidents in Afghanistan, Ghani has taken the view that stability in Afghanistan requires cooperation rather than confrontation with Pakistan, and he recently accepted Pakistan\u2019s long-standing offer to help train Afghanistan\u2019s military.But for Pakistan, meaningful cooperation would require Afghanistan to take action against Pakistan Taliban groups in Afghanistan. And earlier this month Afghan and US troops did exactly that: In one drone, attack nine members of the TTP were killed in Kunar province.In another sign of changing attitudes, in late November Pakistan took credit for targeting members of the Haqqani Network, a group linked to the Afghan Taliban. While the extent of its attack on the group cannot be verified, in the past the Haqqani Network appeared to have been spared the treatment meted out to the TTP and remained, in the words of U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, \u201ca veritable arm of Pakistan\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence agency.\u201d The attack in Peshawar is tragic and unlikely to be the last. But the region stands on the cusp of a potentially game-changing transformation in which the Afghan and Pakistan governments understand that their interests are best served working together rather than undermining each other.That the TTP felt the need to launch its most deadly attack at this juncture is likely to reflect its concern about what this could mean.\n\n11.29am GMT\n11:29\n\nAFP has more on the visit by Pakistan\u2019s military command to Kabul. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief General Raheel Sharif who was accompanied by the head of the Pakistan\u2019s main intelligence agency, the ISI, is set to meet Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and ISAF commander General John Campbell, according to a brief statement by the military. Some of the militants who attacked the army-run school in Peshawar Tuesday spoke in Arabic, a senior security official told AFP, which he said suggested that they had links over the border in Afghanistan.\u201cThe army chief is likely to take Afghan leadership on board on this issue,\u201d the security official said, adding that the handing over of Pakistani Taliban chief Mullah Fazlullah, who is believed to be hiding in northeastern Afghanistan, may also figure at the talks in Kabul.Afghanistan routinely accuses Pakistan of providing shelter within its borders to the Afghan Taliban, while Pakistan accuses Afghanistan of protecting members of the Pakistani Taliban.Analysts said the visit was intended to further cooperation against militants group along the countries\u2019 shared border. \u201cThe army chief is obviously interested that Tehrik-e-Taliban chief Maulana Fazlullah and his group is arrested and handed over to Pakistan or eliminated so that they do not use Afghan territory for launching attacks against Pakistan as happened in Peshawar on Tuesday,\u201d retired general and security analyst Talat Masood told AFP. \u201cGeneral Sharif wants to strengthen military-to-military and intelligence-to-intelligence level cooperation between the two countries otherwise sanctuaries in Afghanistan will be used against Pakistan,\u201d he added. Pakistan\u2019s powerful army and intelligence services are widely seen as being the driving force behind the country\u2019s defence and foreign policies. Updated\nat 11.30am GMT\n\n\n11.18am GMT\n11:18\n\nThe Pakistan Cricket Board has called off a cup final match in Muridke as a mark of respect, but a limited overs international between Pakistan and New Zealand in Abu Dhabi is due to go ahead despite calls for it to be postponed. There are plans to hold a two-minute silence at the match, and the proceeds will be donated to families of the victims. Updated\nat 11.24am GMT\n\n\n11.04am GMT\n11:04\n\nMore grim images from inside the school have emerged, showing classrooms riddled with bullets and carpets soaked in blood. \n\n10.52am GMT\n10:52\n\nPrime minister Nawas Sharif has vowed to push ahead with an army offensive against the Taliban in Pakitan or Tehrik-e-Taliban. The group claimed responsibility for the attack on Tuesday, claiming it was revenge for an offensive launched against it in the summer named Zarb-e-Azb.Speaking at an all party meeting in Peshawar today Sharif said Zarb-e-Azb \u201cis successfully moving forward and Pakistan was making efforts for peace in the region\u201d, according to the Pakistan Radio. It added:The prime minister stressed that the nation is waging jihad against terrorism and this mission will not be left unaccomplished.He recalled that the government started dialogue with militants after evolving consensus of all political parties. But the government was left with no other option but to launch military operation against terrorists due to their intransigence.\n\n10.41am GMT\n10:41\n\nOvernight, the body of the school principal, Tahira Qazi, was found among the debris, AP reports. Qazi was inside her office when the militants made their way into the administration building 20 meters from the auditorium. She had ran and locked herself into the bathroom but the attackers threw a grenade inside, through a vent, and killed her, according to army spokesman Major General Asim Bajwa. There have been widespread tributes to Qazi.my 2 heroes ! martyred miss tahira qazi (my teacher/principal) n my nephew abdullah ,brave survivor #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/OqJiG65vJoMrs.Tahira Qazi, Principal Army Public School with her son & our uni friend Ahmad Qazi on his graduation. RIP Mam :'( pic.twitter.com/Tb0JlZNk81Tribute to this Brave Lady Principal APS Tahira Qazi who was Burnt Alive by TTP Rascals. Pray for Her #PeshawarAttack pic.twitter.com/ih4xSBGh46\n\n10.21am GMT\n10:21\n\nImages of some of the victims of the attack have been published, notes Omar Quraishi, an editor at the Express Tribune. Our future murdered -- some of the Peshawar school victims pic.twitter.com/bpFCT8KuEJ\n\n10.15am GMT\n10:15\n\nThe Pakistan Taliban has identified the militants who carried out the attack on the school, according to reporter Harald Doornbos.#break In statement, Pakistani taliban (TTP) claims these 6 men are behind #PeshawarAttack,7th man is commander: pic.twitter.com/PQrk2xXEks", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Taliban", "Malala Yousafzai", "Afghanistan", "World news", "India"], "title": "Pakistan school attack: political rivals agree anti-terrorism plan"},{"date": "2014-12-17T17:50:11Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Peshawar school massacre that left 132 children and nine staff dead on Tuesday provoked horror and fierce international condemnation.Leaders around the world, from Indian prime minister Narendra Modi to US president Barack Obama, condemned the attack. Pakistani Nobel peace prize winner Malala Yousafzai, who also survived a Taliban attack, said she was \u201cheartbroken by this senseless and cold-blooded act of terror\u201d.Do you live in Pakistan? How do you feel about the situation in your country? We want to hear from you. Tehrik-e-Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it was revenge for a ferocious army offensive called Zarb-e-Azb in tribal areas that has left an estimated 1,000 militants dead and tens of thousands displaced. There is a very real danger of spiraling violence as the Pakistan military, with its reputation for ruthlessness, seeks revenge for the dead children of military personnel. Share your thoughts anonymously by filling in the form below. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "Taliban", "World news"], "title": "Peshawar school massacre: what does the future hold for Pakistan?"},{"date": "2014-12-16T23:11:15Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Good morning folks, and welcome to the Morning Mail \u2013 sign up here to get it straight to your inbox every weekday morning.  Katrina Dawson a 38-year-old barrister and mother of three children, and Tori Johnson, the 34-year-old manager of the Lindt cafe, were named as the hostages who were killed during the siege in Sydney\u2019s Martin Place.Tony Abbott says there are questions to be answered about how \u201csick and disturbed\u201d gunman Man Haron Monis remained at largeExclusive: Inside the Sydney siege - hostages tell of horror in the cafe.\u201cWe\u2019re not getting out of here, none of us are. We are going to die here.\u201d UK prime minister David Cameron has paid tribute to the victims of attacks in Australia and Pakistan How the Australian media reported the Sydney siege, how newspapers around the world covered the Sydney siege on their front pages, and Rupert Murdoch criticised around the world for his tweet \u2018gloating\u2019 about the Daily Telegraph\u2019s coverage of the Sydney siege in the print edition.Visit our Sydney siege tag page for the Guardian\u2019s comprehensive coverage, with dozens of pieces including video, images and analysis. At least 141 people are dead \u2013 including 132 students \u2013 after attackers stormed a Peshawar school and started shooting children. Pakistan has responded to the school massacre with massive air strikes against the Taliban. Police say the siege is now over and five terrorists have been killed. Survivors have told of the terror, saying \u201cI saw death so close\u201d, and pictures from the attack show a desperate scene. The Taliban group behind the attack may be trying to prove its effectiveness after a series of splits, and we have a comment piece reiterating how this sickening massacre isn\u2019t about religion - it\u2019s about intimidation. See how the attack and Pakistan\u2019s response unfolded in our rolling coverage. Employment department staff have rejected a below-inflation pay offer, prompting employment minister Eric Abetz to warn wage rises could \u201conly be paid for through job losses\u201d. The governor general has stripped disgraced former Labor powerbroker Ebbie Obeid of his Order of Australia Medal. A police officer who was found guilty of assaulting Brazilian student Roberto Curti during his fatal arrest in Sydney\u2019s CBD has escaped a conviction. Last year Joe Hockey was trying his very best to make the economic situation look as bad as possible in order to lay the blame of the deficits on Labor. Now it\u2019s even worse, so it\u2019s only fitting his budget rhetoric has come back to haunt him, writes Greg Jericho. Russians left wondering whether the good times under Vladimir Putin are over as the rouble crashes to dramatic low amid frantic central bank rate rise.A federal judge has found president Barack Obama\u2019s new plan to ease the threat of deportation for 4.7 million undocumented immigrants violates the US constitution.Pennsylvania police have found the body of a man suspected of killing six members of his ex-wife\u2019s family.Jeb Bush, the brother of former US president George W Bush, says he is \u2018actively exploring\u2019 a run for the presidency in 2016.The people of Manus Island had no say in the decision to build a detention centre here. But, as this exclusive investigation reveals, the arrival of refugees from around the world \u2013 and the industry that feeds off them \u2013 has brought both economic boom and devastating consequences.Have an excellent day \u2013 and if you spot something I\u2019ve missed, let me know in the comments here or on Twitter @earleyedition.Get the Morning Mail direct to your inbox first thing every weekday by signing up here.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Sydney siege"], "title": "Morning Mail: Sydney siege, Pakistan school massacre, department of unemployment"},{"date": "2014-12-16T19:12:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "There can be no worse or more barbaric stage in any conflict than when one side or the other deliberately kills the children of their enemies. The young students whose bloodied bodies, pathetically clad in their British-style school uniforms, were stretchered out of the army school in Peshawar on Tuesday, as their families stood by and wept, did not die as a result of \u201ccollateral damage\u201d.That dismal euphemism often covers the deaths of innocents. But at least such deaths are not willed. The Taliban militants who infiltrated the school went there with the express purpose of killing children. They were not in the city to attack military installations, police barracks, or even the officers whose children attended the school. They did not even have the scrap of an excuse which the attackers did in Beslan in 2004, that they were taking hostages in pursuit of supposedly just demands addressed to the Russian government. No, they went to Peshawar to kill kids, and they mowed them down until they themselves were mown down, or till the ammunition ran out and they escaped the scene of their crime by committing suicide.The attack did not of course come out of nowhere. Since August the Pakistani army has been on the offensive in Waziristan, chopping away at the north-western badlands where the Taliban is strong, and in Karachi, where it has been trying to dislodge the Taliban from areas of the city which they control. The attack on the school was therefore an act of revenge, as well as an attempt to terrorise the Pakistani government and armed forces into calling off or moderating these campaigns.It is highly unlikely to have that effect. The national revulsion at the school killings will surely reinforce the marked hostility toward the Taliban and other Islamist extremists which Pakistani public opinion displays. It will also undermine the already much discredited idea that there is, at least at this stage, a diplomatic solution to the conflict. The politicians \u2013 notably the ex-cricketer Imran Khan \u2013 who have in the past urged that course will find it hard to return to that theme. Mr Khan has unequivocally condemned the attack and postponed a nationwide protest against the government of Nawaz Sharif that his party, the Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf, was due to stage tomorrow. Mr Sharif offered the insurgents talks earlier this year, but there was little sincerity on either side. The Taliban\u2019s only potential concession was that their aims of a caliphate, sharia law, and the overthrow of the secular state could come in instalments \u2013 not much of a bargain to be had there.So Pakistan finally embarked on the serious war against extremism which it had largely avoided in the past. The resulting campaign is the latest act in the tragic drama of Pakistani politics. The armed forces and successive governments have played with fire for many years, tolerating, supporting and using Islamist extremists in pursuit of their foreign aims in Kashmir, Afghanistan and central Asia, and in their efforts to maintain an elusive equality with India. This double game has caused untold difficulties and suffering in neighbouring countries. Finally, and predictably, the trouble they had fomented abroad came home in what one respected analyst has called \u201cthe worst terrorist backlash in the entire region\u201d. The Peshawar massacre is proof enough of that.The army will surely now go after the Taliban with renewed vigour. But whether the double game is really over is another question. There are many Islamist groups and sub-groups. Managing and using them, dividing them into \u201cgood\u201d and \u201cbad,\u201d according to the needs of the moment, has been a way of life for the Pakistani security establishment. Optimists see a pattern emerging in which the new Afghan government, the Pakistani government and armed forces, and the United States, are closer to being genuinely united than they have ever been in the past, with the extremists unable in the future to take refuge in one country when things are not going well for them in the other. Others are doubtful, noting that using extremism has become a habit it will be hard to give up entirely. But that is the way Pakistan should go. The costs of the old policy have been demonstrated again and again, and the Peshawar school massacre has underlined them in the most horrific way.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban", "Afghanistan"], "title": "The Guardian view on the school killings in Pakistan | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-11T18:25:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "With its shiny new articulated buses, freshly dug underpasses and dedicated flyovers, Islamabad\u2019s new public transport system is supposed to be a symbol of a government that gets big things done.But as a December deadline approaches before thousands of civil servants supposedly start taking the 15-mile Metro Bus journey for their commute into the heart of Pakistan\u2019s capital, the final section of the route along the city\u2019s main avenue is a mess of giant holes and ripped up concrete.Frantic construction work on the \u00a3265m scheme ground to a halt in August when thousands of anti-government protesters, led by opposition politician Imran Khan and a cleric called Tahir-ul-Qadri, flooded into the city.It is not just an important project that has been held up. The protesters also succeeded in paralysing prime minister Nawaz Sharif\u2019s government.The industrialist won a landslide victory in 2013 with promises of reviving a dying economy, forcing a meddling army to finally accept the authority of elected civilians, and making peace with India. More than 18 months later and every part of Sharif\u2019s ambitious agenda is seriously off track.India has responded to Sharif\u2019s peace overtures with an unprecedented upsurge in cross-border firing. At home the government has been badly bruised by ferocious disagreements with the military, which earlier in the year succeeded in forcing the closure of one of country\u2019s most popular private news channels, against the government\u2019s will.And international investors have been seriously put off by the sight of thousands of protesters overwhelming the government quarter of the capital and smashing their way into the grounds of parliament in late August.\u201cBefore the protests we had a brilliant story to tell about Pakistan,\u201d said Mohammad Zubair Umar, chairman of the privatisation commission.Last year, 2013, had been a turning point for Pakistan, he said, pointing out that it was the first time a government had survived a full five-year term without being ousted in an army-backed coup. It also saw the first successful transfer of power to another elected government.\u201cWe told investors that we now had the kind of political stability Pakistan never witnessed in its first 60 years,\u201d Umar said.But many observers feared Pakistan might be reverting to type when Khan descended on Islamabad to protest against the 2013 election, which he claims was stolen from him \u2013 something independent election observers are highly sceptical about.Multimillion-dollar transactions to offload shares in the country\u2019s Oil and Gas Development Company had to be postponed \u2013 foreign lawyers and financial advisers stayed clear of the country, let alone Umar\u2019s office, which overlooks the parade ground Khan has taken over for his sit-in.But despite the damage done, Sharif is determined to regain the initiative. On 4 November he tried to inject some energy into the government\u2019s effort to eradicate polio, which Pakistan has struggled to bring under control. And on Friday he jetted off for a visit to Beijing following the deep embarrassment caused by the decision of China\u2019s president, Xi Jinping, to cancel a trip to Islamabad in the wake of the protests.Sharif has told his cabinet to press on with implementing unpopular decisions, including weaning the public off unaffordable electricity subsidies as part of an effort to end rolling power blackouts that have badly stunted economic growth.\u201cHis political room to manoeuvre has narrowed and everything that was hard, on the economic reform programme, has got harder,\u201d said one diplomat.And yet Sharif is showing no sign of making life easier for himself by appeasing the army, which was driven to distraction last year by an extreme act of provocation: the government\u2019s historic decision to try a former army chief, Pervez Musharraf, for treason.Allies of the prime minister say he has no desire to let off the hook the coup leader who ousted him from an earlier period as prime minister in 1999.Indeed, Sharif may even be emboldened by the ultimate failure of Khan\u2019s street protests, which the former cricket star claimed would lead to the swift ousting of Sharif.Conditions had seemed perfect for the army to demand Sharif step down in early September when thousands of protesters besieged the prime minister\u2019s house and even, briefly, seized control of the state broadcaster.But Sharif survived when all of Pakistan\u2019s politicians \u2013 except those loyal to Khan \u2013 appeared at a dramatic joint sitting of parliament to give their support to the prime minister.Even though some protesters remain on the streets and Khan is threatening another big rally on 30 November, Umar says the crisis is in effect over.\u201cA similar crisis just 10 years ago would have forced out the government,\u201d he said. \u201cThe fact that parliament supported him proves Pakistan has changed.\u201dSharif has ordered an acceleration of an already ambitious privatisation programme, including a restructuring and sell-off of the state carrier Pakistan International Airlines, which will have to shed much of its large workforce.\u201cI was surprised because there are definitely some in the government who don\u2019t think we should be opening up new fronts,\u201d Umar said.\u201cBut if you don\u2019t take these difficult decisions then what is the other option \u2013 just sitting like a lame duck prime minister and not doing anything?\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Imran Khan", "Pervez Musharraf"], "title": "Nawaz Sharif\u2019s government battles to regain the initiative in Pakistan"},{"date": "2014-11-02T18:04:44Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A suicide bomber targeted crowds attending a military parade on the Pakistan-India border on Sunday, killing at least 45 people and injuring more than 70.The attack occurred as spectators were streaming away from a flag-lowering ceremony that takes places at dusk each day at the Wagah border post, an immensely symbolic and sensitive area 15 miles from Lahore, the capital of Pakistan\u2019s Punjab province.Among the dead were three members of the Rangers, a paramilitary force with responsibility for securing the area.Punjab Rangers chief Tahir Javed Khan confirmed the attack was the work of a suicide bomber who detonated his device after apparently realising he would be unable to get through a security cordon without being frisked. \u201cThe suicide bomber failed to cross the security barrier and blew himself up outside when people were coming out,\u201d he said.Had he succeeded in reaching the parade ground itself, where tiered seating accommodates hundreds of spectators, the death toll from a bomb thought to have been laced with ball bearings could have been higher.The daily spectacle sees soldiers on both sides stamping around in an elaborate display that culminates with the slamming shut of the double gates of the only land-crossing between India and Pakistan.The flamboyant display of nationalism attracts large crowds of onlookers on both sides of the border, including many families with young children.Spokesmen from two nominally separate militant groups contacted news outlets to claim responsibility for the attack.First, Jundullah, which has been linked to savage attacks in the past, said it had carried out the attack. Last year they claimed responsibility for the suicide bombing of a church in the north-western city of Peshawar.Later a spokesman for Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, Ehsanullah Ehsan, said the bombing was just \u201cthe start of attacks\u201d by the relatively new group, which \u201cwill continue such attacks in the future\u201d. He said in a statement: \u201cThis attack is the revenge of the killing of those innocent people who have been killed by Pakistan army particularly of those who have been killed in North Waziristan,\u201d he said in a statement.In recent months the country has enjoyed a lull in terrorist violence, with far fewer mass-casualty attacks on soft civilian targets than in the previous year.Analysts attributed the downturn in violence to the military operation launched in June against the militant safe haven in the north-west tribal agency of North Waziristan, and disagreements within the Pakistani Taliban that resulted in the once formidable militant alliance splitting into multiple groups.Security forces are nonetheless on high alert as the country\u2019s Shia minority prepare to gather in large numbers to mark the festival of Ashura, which has been attacked by sectarian terrorists in the past.Wagah is a particularly sensitive area for a country that has fought four wars since independence in 1947 with its larger neighbour.With travel and trade between the two countries heavily restricted, the daily flag ceremony is the only opportunity most Pakistanis and Indians have to see each other in the flesh.Some pro-peace activists in Pakistan have criticised the noisy show of daily patriotism and have called for it to be scrapped.Despite the hopes of prime minister Nawaz Sharif for an improvement in trade and diplomatic ties between the two countries, relations are at a low ebb after Delhi reprimanded Pakistani diplomats for meeting Kashmiri separatist leaders in August.There has also been a dramatic escalation in cross-border firing between Indian and Pakistani troops on either side of the border in recent months.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Dozens killed in suicide attack at Pakistan-India border post"},{"date": "2015-02-13T14:32:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Taliban continued their deadly sectarian campaign on Friday with an assault by suicide attackers on a packed prayer hall full of Shia worshippers that left 19 dead.A further 40 people were injured when up to five militants stormed the Imamia Masjid Imambargah in central Peshawar, the troubled city in Pakistan\u2019s north-west where more than 130 teenage boys were killed in December\u2019s Army Public School massacre.The attack was launched during Friday prayers, the busiest moment of the week, and executed by young men carrying grenades, assault rifles and suicide bomb vests.The provincial police chief Nasir Durrani said the men avoided guards on the main gate of the hall by climbing over a wall from a neighbouring construction site and cutting through barbed wire.Security had been posted at the entrance as the compound is an obvious target for sectarian terrorists and close to various government buildings.Two men died after detonating their bombs and another three were killed by worshippers, according to Durrani.\u201cPeople here showed great courage. They grabbed one of the attackers from his neck, and he couldn\u2019t detonate [his explosives], and he was shot and killed,\u201d Durrani said.Local television showed chaotic scenes of worshippers fleeing the ongoing attack, some carrying the injured to safety.The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the country\u2019s largest militant alliance, immediately claimed responsibility, saying it was revenge for the execution by the government of a militant known as Dr Usman, a former army medic involved in a 2009 attack on the army\u2019s headquarters.Pakistan dropped an informal moratorium on the death penalty amid national outrage over the Peshawar school massacre, and several prisoners who had been on death row have been executed.The December school attack prompted the government to launch a 20-point strategy to tackle the terrorism and extremism that has plagued the country for years.There were promises to regulate religious seminaries and ban militant groups, and the army continues to fight against the TTP in North Waziristan, a region bordering Afghanistan.The military claims the operation is a success and has helped improve security in the country. There has been a significant fall in violence following the military campaign in North Waziristan but the country remains vulnerable.The TTP says it is fighting to turn Pakistan into a strict sharia law state, although it also regularly launches sectarian attacks against Shias.Friday\u2019s incident came two weeks after the bombing of another Shia imambargah in southern Pakistan, which killed 61 people and was the deadliest sectarian attack in two years.The country\u2019s leading Shia community groups declared three days of national mourning on Friday.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Explosions and gunfire at Pakistan prayer hall"},{"date": "2015-02-13T14:32:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Taliban continued their deadly sectarian campaign on Friday with an assault by suicide attackers on a packed prayer hall full of Shia worshippers that left 19 dead.A further 40 people were injured when up to five militants stormed the Imamia Masjid Imambargah in central Peshawar, the troubled city in Pakistan\u2019s north-west where more than 130 teenage boys were killed in December\u2019s Army Public School massacre.The attack was launched during Friday prayers, the busiest moment of the week, and executed by young men carrying grenades, assault rifles and suicide bomb vests.The provincial police chief Nasir Durrani said the men avoided guards on the main gate of the hall by climbing over a wall from a neighbouring construction site and cutting through barbed wire.Security had been posted at the entrance as the compound is an obvious target for sectarian terrorists and close to various government buildings.Two men died after detonating their bombs and another three were killed by worshippers, according to Durrani.\u201cPeople here showed great courage. They grabbed one of the attackers from his neck, and he couldn\u2019t detonate [his explosives], and he was shot and killed,\u201d Durrani said.Local television showed chaotic scenes of worshippers fleeing the ongoing attack, some carrying the injured to safety.The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the country\u2019s largest militant alliance, immediately claimed responsibility, saying it was revenge for the execution by the government of a militant known as Dr Usman, a former army medic involved in a 2009 attack on the army\u2019s headquarters.Pakistan dropped an informal moratorium on the death penalty amid national outrage over the Peshawar school massacre, and several prisoners who had been on death row have been executed.The December school attack prompted the government to launch a 20-point strategy to tackle the terrorism and extremism that has plagued the country for years.There were promises to regulate religious seminaries and ban militant groups, and the army continues to fight against the TTP in North Waziristan, a region bordering Afghanistan.The military claims the operation is a success and has helped improve security in the country. There has been a significant fall in violence following the military campaign in North Waziristan but the country remains vulnerable.The TTP says it is fighting to turn Pakistan into a strict sharia law state, although it also regularly launches sectarian attacks against Shias.Friday\u2019s incident came two weeks after the bombing of another Shia imambargah in southern Pakistan, which killed 61 people and was the deadliest sectarian attack in two years.The country\u2019s leading Shia community groups declared three days of national mourning on Friday.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Explosions and gunfire at Pakistan prayer hall"},{"date": "2015-01-30T17:38:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani group that has affiliated itself to Islamic State (Isis) has killed more than 60 people in a bombing of a Shia mosque, one of the deadliest sectarian atrocities in\u00a0years.The explosive device ripped through a Shia imambargah, or prayer hall, in the southern Pakistani city of Shikarpur during the weekly Friday prayers when the building was packed with around 400 worshippers.Saqib Ismail Memon, police chief of the city in Sindh province, said it was unclear whether the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber or a device left in the building.Either way, the huge explosion was felt for miles around and had enough force to wound 60 more worshippers and cause a section of the building to collapse.Witnesses said people frantically attempted to dig bodies out of the rubble while others were rushed to hospital in cars and rickshaws.\u201cThe area is scattered with blood and flesh and it smells of burnt meat, people are screaming at each other \u2026 it is chaos,\u201d said a witness, Zahid Noon.Mohabbat Ali Bablani, a Shikarpur resident, said four of his cousins, aged between 30 and 40, were killed in the blast while his friend had lost five children, all under 13. \u201cNizam-ud-Din Sheikh has lost his five sons. He had taken them with him to offer prayers and all of them were killed in the attack,\u201d he said.Fahad Marwat, a spokesman for a militant Sunni group called Jundullah, told Reuters they had targeted the building because the Shias \u201care our enemies\u201d.Little is known with certainty about the shadowy group, itself an offshoot of the Pakistani Taliban, a once dominant but now increasingly frayed national militant alliance.Jundullah has been linked to a number of major attacks including the suicide bombing of a church in the city of Peshawar in 2013 that killed around 80 Christians.In November the group said it had sworn allegiance to Isis.At the time a spokesman claimed Jundullah had met a three-man delegation from Isis, although analysts disagree over the extent of Isis\u2019s influence in Pakistan, which is already home to dozens of established militant groups.Many of them share aims and ideas, including a hatred of Pakistan\u2019s Shia minority, whom they consider heretics and worthy of death.The rise of Isis in Iraq has electrified many jihadists in Pakistan and pro-Isis leaflets, graffiti and posters have appeared around the country.Friday\u2019s bombing was the most deadly single sectarian attack since March 2013, when a car bomb killed 45 people in a Shia neighbourhood of the port city of Karachi.Majlis Wahdat-e-Muslimeen, a Shia organisation, has called for a province-wide strike on Saturday in protest at the Shikarpur killing.The attack comes at a time when the government is attempting to enact a 20-point national action plan to eradicate terrorism and extremism in the wake of the December attack on a the Army public school in Peshawar that killed more than 130 schoolboys.To that end the government has reinstated the death penalty for convicted terrorists and agreed to set up military courts to hear terrorism cases.Many analysts fret, however, that the government will struggle to combat Pakistan\u2019s deeply entrenched network of jihadists and their sympathisers.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islamic State", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan Shia mosque bombing kills dozens"},{"date": "2015-02-13T14:32:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Taliban continued their deadly sectarian campaign on Friday with an assault by suicide attackers on a packed prayer hall full of Shia worshippers that left 19 dead.A further 40 people were injured when up to five militants stormed the Imamia Masjid Imambargah in central Peshawar, the troubled city in Pakistan\u2019s north-west where more than 130 teenage boys were killed in December\u2019s Army Public School massacre.The attack was launched during Friday prayers, the busiest moment of the week, and executed by young men carrying grenades, assault rifles and suicide bomb vests.The provincial police chief Nasir Durrani said the men avoided guards on the main gate of the hall by climbing over a wall from a neighbouring construction site and cutting through barbed wire.Security had been posted at the entrance as the compound is an obvious target for sectarian terrorists and close to various government buildings.Two men died after detonating their bombs and another three were killed by worshippers, according to Durrani.\u201cPeople here showed great courage. They grabbed one of the attackers from his neck, and he couldn\u2019t detonate [his explosives], and he was shot and killed,\u201d Durrani said.Local television showed chaotic scenes of worshippers fleeing the ongoing attack, some carrying the injured to safety.The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the country\u2019s largest militant alliance, immediately claimed responsibility, saying it was revenge for the execution by the government of a militant known as Dr Usman, a former army medic involved in a 2009 attack on the army\u2019s headquarters.Pakistan dropped an informal moratorium on the death penalty amid national outrage over the Peshawar school massacre, and several prisoners who had been on death row have been executed.The December school attack prompted the government to launch a 20-point strategy to tackle the terrorism and extremism that has plagued the country for years.There were promises to regulate religious seminaries and ban militant groups, and the army continues to fight against the TTP in North Waziristan, a region bordering Afghanistan.The military claims the operation is a success and has helped improve security in the country. There has been a significant fall in violence following the military campaign in North Waziristan but the country remains vulnerable.The TTP says it is fighting to turn Pakistan into a strict sharia law state, although it also regularly launches sectarian attacks against Shias.Friday\u2019s incident came two weeks after the bombing of another Shia imambargah in southern Pakistan, which killed 61 people and was the deadliest sectarian attack in two years.The country\u2019s leading Shia community groups declared three days of national mourning on Friday.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Explosions and gunfire at Pakistan prayer hall"},{"date": "2015-01-30T17:38:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani group that has affiliated itself to Islamic State (Isis) has killed more than 60 people in a bombing of a Shia mosque, one of the deadliest sectarian atrocities in\u00a0years.The explosive device ripped through a Shia imambargah, or prayer hall, in the southern Pakistani city of Shikarpur during the weekly Friday prayers when the building was packed with around 400 worshippers.Saqib Ismail Memon, police chief of the city in Sindh province, said it was unclear whether the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber or a device left in the building.Either way, the huge explosion was felt for miles around and had enough force to wound 60 more worshippers and cause a section of the building to collapse.Witnesses said people frantically attempted to dig bodies out of the rubble while others were rushed to hospital in cars and rickshaws.\u201cThe area is scattered with blood and flesh and it smells of burnt meat, people are screaming at each other \u2026 it is chaos,\u201d said a witness, Zahid Noon.Mohabbat Ali Bablani, a Shikarpur resident, said four of his cousins, aged between 30 and 40, were killed in the blast while his friend had lost five children, all under 13. \u201cNizam-ud-Din Sheikh has lost his five sons. He had taken them with him to offer prayers and all of them were killed in the attack,\u201d he said.Fahad Marwat, a spokesman for a militant Sunni group called Jundullah, told Reuters they had targeted the building because the Shias \u201care our enemies\u201d.Little is known with certainty about the shadowy group, itself an offshoot of the Pakistani Taliban, a once dominant but now increasingly frayed national militant alliance.Jundullah has been linked to a number of major attacks including the suicide bombing of a church in the city of Peshawar in 2013 that killed around 80 Christians.In November the group said it had sworn allegiance to Isis.At the time a spokesman claimed Jundullah had met a three-man delegation from Isis, although analysts disagree over the extent of Isis\u2019s influence in Pakistan, which is already home to dozens of established militant groups.Many of them share aims and ideas, including a hatred of Pakistan\u2019s Shia minority, whom they consider heretics and worthy of death.The rise of Isis in Iraq has electrified many jihadists in Pakistan and pro-Isis leaflets, graffiti and posters have appeared around the country.Friday\u2019s bombing was the most deadly single sectarian attack since March 2013, when a car bomb killed 45 people in a Shia neighbourhood of the port city of Karachi.Majlis Wahdat-e-Muslimeen, a Shia organisation, has called for a province-wide strike on Saturday in protest at the Shikarpur killing.The attack comes at a time when the government is attempting to enact a 20-point national action plan to eradicate terrorism and extremism in the wake of the December attack on a the Army public school in Peshawar that killed more than 130 schoolboys.To that end the government has reinstated the death penalty for convicted terrorists and agreed to set up military courts to hear terrorism cases.Many analysts fret, however, that the government will struggle to combat Pakistan\u2019s deeply entrenched network of jihadists and their sympathisers.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islamic State", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan Shia mosque bombing kills dozens"},{"date": "2015-03-13T16:32:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan, the country that has been subjected to more secret US drone strikes than any other, has hailed the development of its first unmanned combat plane as a \u201cgreat national achievement\u201d. Related: 41 men targeted but 1,147 people killed: US drone strikes \u2013 the facts on the ground In a significant breakthrough, the country\u2019s army announced on Friday it had successfully test-fired a missile from an indigenously developed drone \u2013 a technical feat few nations have managed.Army chief Raheel Sharif was among the engineers and scientists who witnessed the demonstration of a technology that has largely been the reserve of a few countries, such as the US and Israel.The army said the drone, named Burraq after the flying horse of Islamic tradition, successfully hit stationary and moving targets with its Barq laser-guided missile with \u201cimpressive pinpoint accuracy\u201d.The system would be a \u201cforce multiplier in our anti-terror campaign\u201d, said an army spokesman, Asim Bajwa.Developing homemade drones has been a priority for Pakistan given the extensive use made of them since 2004 by the CIA to target terrorist groups in the restive north-west tribal belt.The controversial weapons have proved irresistible given their ability to linger over their targets for extended periods of time, collect intelligence and deliver deadly missiles far more cheaply than conventional aircraft.But the US supplies only its most trustworthy allies with the capability and has refused repeated requests from Pakistan, which has been attempting to join the club of countries with armed drones for at least two years. Although it already has surveillance drones, arming them requires numerous technical problems to be overcome.During the ongoing \u201cOperation Zarb-e-Azb\u201d operation against militants in North Waziristan, a major sanctuary for militant groups bordering Afghanistan, the country has made extensive use of bombs dropped from fighter planes.The army has repeatedly claimed no civilians were killed in the extensive air campaign, but the claim has been impossible to verify.US drone attacks have been decried by many Pakistanis and activists around the world who claim innocent lives have been lost and entire civilian populations traumatised by the continued presence of drones.Islamabad makes diplomatic protests against US drone strikes as a matter of routine, although there is considerable evidence Pakistan has given its consent to the strikes.Although the military recognises the US drone campaign has been effective, many believe it is an unacceptable infringement on the country\u2019s sovereignty.According to the independent Bureau of Investigative Journalism, the CIA has carried out 413 drone strikes in Pakistan since 2004.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Drones (military)", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan military's new combat drone is 'great national achievement'"},{"date": "2015-02-13T14:32:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Taliban continued their deadly sectarian campaign on Friday with an assault by suicide attackers on a packed prayer hall full of Shia worshippers that left 19 dead.A further 40 people were injured when up to five militants stormed the Imamia Masjid Imambargah in central Peshawar, the troubled city in Pakistan\u2019s north-west where more than 130 teenage boys were killed in December\u2019s Army Public School massacre.The attack was launched during Friday prayers, the busiest moment of the week, and executed by young men carrying grenades, assault rifles and suicide bomb vests.The provincial police chief Nasir Durrani said the men avoided guards on the main gate of the hall by climbing over a wall from a neighbouring construction site and cutting through barbed wire.Security had been posted at the entrance as the compound is an obvious target for sectarian terrorists and close to various government buildings.Two men died after detonating their bombs and another three were killed by worshippers, according to Durrani.\u201cPeople here showed great courage. They grabbed one of the attackers from his neck, and he couldn\u2019t detonate [his explosives], and he was shot and killed,\u201d Durrani said.Local television showed chaotic scenes of worshippers fleeing the ongoing attack, some carrying the injured to safety.The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the country\u2019s largest militant alliance, immediately claimed responsibility, saying it was revenge for the execution by the government of a militant known as Dr Usman, a former army medic involved in a 2009 attack on the army\u2019s headquarters.Pakistan dropped an informal moratorium on the death penalty amid national outrage over the Peshawar school massacre, and several prisoners who had been on death row have been executed.The December school attack prompted the government to launch a 20-point strategy to tackle the terrorism and extremism that has plagued the country for years.There were promises to regulate religious seminaries and ban militant groups, and the army continues to fight against the TTP in North Waziristan, a region bordering Afghanistan.The military claims the operation is a success and has helped improve security in the country. There has been a significant fall in violence following the military campaign in North Waziristan but the country remains vulnerable.The TTP says it is fighting to turn Pakistan into a strict sharia law state, although it also regularly launches sectarian attacks against Shias.Friday\u2019s incident came two weeks after the bombing of another Shia imambargah in southern Pakistan, which killed 61 people and was the deadliest sectarian attack in two years.The country\u2019s leading Shia community groups declared three days of national mourning on Friday.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Explosions and gunfire at Pakistan prayer hall"},{"date": "2015-01-30T17:38:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani group that has affiliated itself to Islamic State (Isis) has killed more than 60 people in a bombing of a Shia mosque, one of the deadliest sectarian atrocities in\u00a0years.The explosive device ripped through a Shia imambargah, or prayer hall, in the southern Pakistani city of Shikarpur during the weekly Friday prayers when the building was packed with around 400 worshippers.Saqib Ismail Memon, police chief of the city in Sindh province, said it was unclear whether the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber or a device left in the building.Either way, the huge explosion was felt for miles around and had enough force to wound 60 more worshippers and cause a section of the building to collapse.Witnesses said people frantically attempted to dig bodies out of the rubble while others were rushed to hospital in cars and rickshaws.\u201cThe area is scattered with blood and flesh and it smells of burnt meat, people are screaming at each other \u2026 it is chaos,\u201d said a witness, Zahid Noon.Mohabbat Ali Bablani, a Shikarpur resident, said four of his cousins, aged between 30 and 40, were killed in the blast while his friend had lost five children, all under 13. \u201cNizam-ud-Din Sheikh has lost his five sons. He had taken them with him to offer prayers and all of them were killed in the attack,\u201d he said.Fahad Marwat, a spokesman for a militant Sunni group called Jundullah, told Reuters they had targeted the building because the Shias \u201care our enemies\u201d.Little is known with certainty about the shadowy group, itself an offshoot of the Pakistani Taliban, a once dominant but now increasingly frayed national militant alliance.Jundullah has been linked to a number of major attacks including the suicide bombing of a church in the city of Peshawar in 2013 that killed around 80 Christians.In November the group said it had sworn allegiance to Isis.At the time a spokesman claimed Jundullah had met a three-man delegation from Isis, although analysts disagree over the extent of Isis\u2019s influence in Pakistan, which is already home to dozens of established militant groups.Many of them share aims and ideas, including a hatred of Pakistan\u2019s Shia minority, whom they consider heretics and worthy of death.The rise of Isis in Iraq has electrified many jihadists in Pakistan and pro-Isis leaflets, graffiti and posters have appeared around the country.Friday\u2019s bombing was the most deadly single sectarian attack since March 2013, when a car bomb killed 45 people in a Shia neighbourhood of the port city of Karachi.Majlis Wahdat-e-Muslimeen, a Shia organisation, has called for a province-wide strike on Saturday in protest at the Shikarpur killing.The attack comes at a time when the government is attempting to enact a 20-point national action plan to eradicate terrorism and extremism in the wake of the December attack on a the Army public school in Peshawar that killed more than 130 schoolboys.To that end the government has reinstated the death penalty for convicted terrorists and agreed to set up military courts to hear terrorism cases.Many analysts fret, however, that the government will struggle to combat Pakistan\u2019s deeply entrenched network of jihadists and their sympathisers.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islamic State", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan Shia mosque bombing kills dozens"},{"date": "2015-03-13T16:32:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan, the country that has been subjected to more secret US drone strikes than any other, has hailed the development of its first unmanned combat plane as a \u201cgreat national achievement\u201d. Related: 41 men targeted but 1,147 people killed: US drone strikes \u2013 the facts on the ground In a significant breakthrough, the country\u2019s army announced on Friday it had successfully test-fired a missile from an indigenously developed drone \u2013 a technical feat few nations have managed.Army chief Raheel Sharif was among the engineers and scientists who witnessed the demonstration of a technology that has largely been the reserve of a few countries, such as the US and Israel.The army said the drone, named Burraq after the flying horse of Islamic tradition, successfully hit stationary and moving targets with its Barq laser-guided missile with \u201cimpressive pinpoint accuracy\u201d.The system would be a \u201cforce multiplier in our anti-terror campaign\u201d, said an army spokesman, Asim Bajwa.Developing homemade drones has been a priority for Pakistan given the extensive use made of them since 2004 by the CIA to target terrorist groups in the restive north-west tribal belt.The controversial weapons have proved irresistible given their ability to linger over their targets for extended periods of time, collect intelligence and deliver deadly missiles far more cheaply than conventional aircraft.But the US supplies only its most trustworthy allies with the capability and has refused repeated requests from Pakistan, which has been attempting to join the club of countries with armed drones for at least two years. Although it already has surveillance drones, arming them requires numerous technical problems to be overcome.During the ongoing \u201cOperation Zarb-e-Azb\u201d operation against militants in North Waziristan, a major sanctuary for militant groups bordering Afghanistan, the country has made extensive use of bombs dropped from fighter planes.The army has repeatedly claimed no civilians were killed in the extensive air campaign, but the claim has been impossible to verify.US drone attacks have been decried by many Pakistanis and activists around the world who claim innocent lives have been lost and entire civilian populations traumatised by the continued presence of drones.Islamabad makes diplomatic protests against US drone strikes as a matter of routine, although there is considerable evidence Pakistan has given its consent to the strikes.Although the military recognises the US drone campaign has been effective, many believe it is an unacceptable infringement on the country\u2019s sovereignty.According to the independent Bureau of Investigative Journalism, the CIA has carried out 413 drone strikes in Pakistan since 2004.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Drones (military)", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan military's new combat drone is 'great national achievement'"},{"date": "2015-02-17T12:28:08Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A fatal suicide bomb has torn through crowds on the normally placid streets of Lahore, reportedly killing several people, as the Pakistani city gears up to host one of the country\u2019s biggest cultural events this weekend.The bombing outside a major police compound killed at least five people on Empress Road, one of the city\u2019s major thoroughfares, which is a short distance from the venue of the Lahore literary festival. A Taliban splinter group called Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan Jamaatul Ahrar (TTP-JA) claimed responsibility for the attack, which a spokesman said was a response to recent executions of some of their members by the Islamabad government.\u201cWe want to make it clear to the rulers that we will take revenge for the blood of innocent Muslims \u2013 our operations will continue till an Islamic system is imposed,\u201d the group\u2019s spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan, said in an emailed statement.Officials believe the bomber was attempting to blast the entrance gate of the police compound, which is close to important government buildings and a shrine.Police officials and the emergency medical charity Edhi gave conflicting numbers of victims, with the provincial home minister Shuja Khanzada claiming four civilians and one policeman had been killed, while another that 17 were injured. Edhi, which runs ambulances that quickly appear at bomb sites, said eight people had been killed.Lahore, the affluent capital of Punjab province, has been spared much of the terrorist violence that has afflicted many other parts of the country in the last decade.The most recent attack occurred in November at an evening military ceremony at Wagah, a border crossing with India around 12 miles from the city centre. That attack, also claimed by TTP-JA, killed more than 60 people. The latest bombing will cast a shadow over the city\u2019s three-day literary festival that begins on Friday.Non-religious public gatherings are increasingly rare in the country and the event has proved a hit since it was first launched in 2013, attracting an estimated 50,000 last year.Organisers say the gathering of book lovers challenges Pakistan\u2019s reputation for extremist violence but concede some international authors have needed reassurance that Lahore is not the epicentre of terrorism. Ahmed Rashid, a writer and one of the organisers, said a couple of foreign authors had been put off this year by government travel warnings and the tide of bad news about militant attacks on the country.But Nuscie Jamil, a member of the organising committee, said security was a top priority for the festival and the Lahore police.\u201cAll measures are in place to ensure everyone\u2019s safety and there are no plans to cancel or shorten the programme,\u201d she said.Pakistan is currently on a war footing against the Taliban, following the massacre in December of 130 boys as they were attending school in the western city of Peshawar.Also on Tuesday, Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief made his latest visit to the Afghan capital, Kabul, in a sign of growing counter-terrorism cooperation between the two often hostile neighbours.Nighat Dad, a human rights activist who was in a mobile phone shop very close to the scene of Tuesday\u2019s blast, said she felt increasingly unsafe in the city.\u201cThe fear in my head is really strong now,\u201d she said. \u201cJust before I had been at the Lahore high court, where there was a huge crowd of lawyers and no one was checking bags and the machines weren\u2019t working. I just had this sixth sense that something was wrong so I rushed out and went to Empress Road.\u201d ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan Taliban suicide bombing in Lahore leaves several dead"},{"date": "2015-02-13T14:32:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Taliban continued their deadly sectarian campaign on Friday with an assault by suicide attackers on a packed prayer hall full of Shia worshippers that left 19 dead.A further 40 people were injured when up to five militants stormed the Imamia Masjid Imambargah in central Peshawar, the troubled city in Pakistan\u2019s north-west where more than 130 teenage boys were killed in December\u2019s Army Public School massacre.The attack was launched during Friday prayers, the busiest moment of the week, and executed by young men carrying grenades, assault rifles and suicide bomb vests.The provincial police chief Nasir Durrani said the men avoided guards on the main gate of the hall by climbing over a wall from a neighbouring construction site and cutting through barbed wire.Security had been posted at the entrance as the compound is an obvious target for sectarian terrorists and close to various government buildings.Two men died after detonating their bombs and another three were killed by worshippers, according to Durrani.\u201cPeople here showed great courage. They grabbed one of the attackers from his neck, and he couldn\u2019t detonate [his explosives], and he was shot and killed,\u201d Durrani said.Local television showed chaotic scenes of worshippers fleeing the ongoing attack, some carrying the injured to safety.The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the country\u2019s largest militant alliance, immediately claimed responsibility, saying it was revenge for the execution by the government of a militant known as Dr Usman, a former army medic involved in a 2009 attack on the army\u2019s headquarters.Pakistan dropped an informal moratorium on the death penalty amid national outrage over the Peshawar school massacre, and several prisoners who had been on death row have been executed.The December school attack prompted the government to launch a 20-point strategy to tackle the terrorism and extremism that has plagued the country for years.There were promises to regulate religious seminaries and ban militant groups, and the army continues to fight against the TTP in North Waziristan, a region bordering Afghanistan.The military claims the operation is a success and has helped improve security in the country. There has been a significant fall in violence following the military campaign in North Waziristan but the country remains vulnerable.The TTP says it is fighting to turn Pakistan into a strict sharia law state, although it also regularly launches sectarian attacks against Shias.Friday\u2019s incident came two weeks after the bombing of another Shia imambargah in southern Pakistan, which killed 61 people and was the deadliest sectarian attack in two years.The country\u2019s leading Shia community groups declared three days of national mourning on Friday.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Explosions and gunfire at Pakistan prayer hall"},{"date": "2015-01-30T17:38:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani group that has affiliated itself to Islamic State (Isis) has killed more than 60 people in a bombing of a Shia mosque, one of the deadliest sectarian atrocities in\u00a0years.The explosive device ripped through a Shia imambargah, or prayer hall, in the southern Pakistani city of Shikarpur during the weekly Friday prayers when the building was packed with around 400 worshippers.Saqib Ismail Memon, police chief of the city in Sindh province, said it was unclear whether the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber or a device left in the building.Either way, the huge explosion was felt for miles around and had enough force to wound 60 more worshippers and cause a section of the building to collapse.Witnesses said people frantically attempted to dig bodies out of the rubble while others were rushed to hospital in cars and rickshaws.\u201cThe area is scattered with blood and flesh and it smells of burnt meat, people are screaming at each other \u2026 it is chaos,\u201d said a witness, Zahid Noon.Mohabbat Ali Bablani, a Shikarpur resident, said four of his cousins, aged between 30 and 40, were killed in the blast while his friend had lost five children, all under 13. \u201cNizam-ud-Din Sheikh has lost his five sons. He had taken them with him to offer prayers and all of them were killed in the attack,\u201d he said.Fahad Marwat, a spokesman for a militant Sunni group called Jundullah, told Reuters they had targeted the building because the Shias \u201care our enemies\u201d.Little is known with certainty about the shadowy group, itself an offshoot of the Pakistani Taliban, a once dominant but now increasingly frayed national militant alliance.Jundullah has been linked to a number of major attacks including the suicide bombing of a church in the city of Peshawar in 2013 that killed around 80 Christians.In November the group said it had sworn allegiance to Isis.At the time a spokesman claimed Jundullah had met a three-man delegation from Isis, although analysts disagree over the extent of Isis\u2019s influence in Pakistan, which is already home to dozens of established militant groups.Many of them share aims and ideas, including a hatred of Pakistan\u2019s Shia minority, whom they consider heretics and worthy of death.The rise of Isis in Iraq has electrified many jihadists in Pakistan and pro-Isis leaflets, graffiti and posters have appeared around the country.Friday\u2019s bombing was the most deadly single sectarian attack since March 2013, when a car bomb killed 45 people in a Shia neighbourhood of the port city of Karachi.Majlis Wahdat-e-Muslimeen, a Shia organisation, has called for a province-wide strike on Saturday in protest at the Shikarpur killing.The attack comes at a time when the government is attempting to enact a 20-point national action plan to eradicate terrorism and extremism in the wake of the December attack on a the Army public school in Peshawar that killed more than 130 schoolboys.To that end the government has reinstated the death penalty for convicted terrorists and agreed to set up military courts to hear terrorism cases.Many analysts fret, however, that the government will struggle to combat Pakistan\u2019s deeply entrenched network of jihadists and their sympathisers.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islamic State", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan Shia mosque bombing kills dozens"},{"date": "2015-03-13T16:32:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan, the country that has been subjected to more secret US drone strikes than any other, has hailed the development of its first unmanned combat plane as a \u201cgreat national achievement\u201d. Related: 41 men targeted but 1,147 people killed: US drone strikes \u2013 the facts on the ground In a significant breakthrough, the country\u2019s army announced on Friday it had successfully test-fired a missile from an indigenously developed drone \u2013 a technical feat few nations have managed.Army chief Raheel Sharif was among the engineers and scientists who witnessed the demonstration of a technology that has largely been the reserve of a few countries, such as the US and Israel.The army said the drone, named Burraq after the flying horse of Islamic tradition, successfully hit stationary and moving targets with its Barq laser-guided missile with \u201cimpressive pinpoint accuracy\u201d.The system would be a \u201cforce multiplier in our anti-terror campaign\u201d, said an army spokesman, Asim Bajwa.Developing homemade drones has been a priority for Pakistan given the extensive use made of them since 2004 by the CIA to target terrorist groups in the restive north-west tribal belt.The controversial weapons have proved irresistible given their ability to linger over their targets for extended periods of time, collect intelligence and deliver deadly missiles far more cheaply than conventional aircraft.But the US supplies only its most trustworthy allies with the capability and has refused repeated requests from Pakistan, which has been attempting to join the club of countries with armed drones for at least two years. Although it already has surveillance drones, arming them requires numerous technical problems to be overcome.During the ongoing \u201cOperation Zarb-e-Azb\u201d operation against militants in North Waziristan, a major sanctuary for militant groups bordering Afghanistan, the country has made extensive use of bombs dropped from fighter planes.The army has repeatedly claimed no civilians were killed in the extensive air campaign, but the claim has been impossible to verify.US drone attacks have been decried by many Pakistanis and activists around the world who claim innocent lives have been lost and entire civilian populations traumatised by the continued presence of drones.Islamabad makes diplomatic protests against US drone strikes as a matter of routine, although there is considerable evidence Pakistan has given its consent to the strikes.Although the military recognises the US drone campaign has been effective, many believe it is an unacceptable infringement on the country\u2019s sovereignty.According to the independent Bureau of Investigative Journalism, the CIA has carried out 413 drone strikes in Pakistan since 2004.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Drones (military)", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan military's new combat drone is 'great national achievement'"},{"date": "2015-02-17T12:28:08Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A fatal suicide bomb has torn through crowds on the normally placid streets of Lahore, reportedly killing several people, as the Pakistani city gears up to host one of the country\u2019s biggest cultural events this weekend.The bombing outside a major police compound killed at least five people on Empress Road, one of the city\u2019s major thoroughfares, which is a short distance from the venue of the Lahore literary festival. A Taliban splinter group called Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan Jamaatul Ahrar (TTP-JA) claimed responsibility for the attack, which a spokesman said was a response to recent executions of some of their members by the Islamabad government.\u201cWe want to make it clear to the rulers that we will take revenge for the blood of innocent Muslims \u2013 our operations will continue till an Islamic system is imposed,\u201d the group\u2019s spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan, said in an emailed statement.Officials believe the bomber was attempting to blast the entrance gate of the police compound, which is close to important government buildings and a shrine.Police officials and the emergency medical charity Edhi gave conflicting numbers of victims, with the provincial home minister Shuja Khanzada claiming four civilians and one policeman had been killed, while another that 17 were injured. Edhi, which runs ambulances that quickly appear at bomb sites, said eight people had been killed.Lahore, the affluent capital of Punjab province, has been spared much of the terrorist violence that has afflicted many other parts of the country in the last decade.The most recent attack occurred in November at an evening military ceremony at Wagah, a border crossing with India around 12 miles from the city centre. That attack, also claimed by TTP-JA, killed more than 60 people. The latest bombing will cast a shadow over the city\u2019s three-day literary festival that begins on Friday.Non-religious public gatherings are increasingly rare in the country and the event has proved a hit since it was first launched in 2013, attracting an estimated 50,000 last year.Organisers say the gathering of book lovers challenges Pakistan\u2019s reputation for extremist violence but concede some international authors have needed reassurance that Lahore is not the epicentre of terrorism. Ahmed Rashid, a writer and one of the organisers, said a couple of foreign authors had been put off this year by government travel warnings and the tide of bad news about militant attacks on the country.But Nuscie Jamil, a member of the organising committee, said security was a top priority for the festival and the Lahore police.\u201cAll measures are in place to ensure everyone\u2019s safety and there are no plans to cancel or shorten the programme,\u201d she said.Pakistan is currently on a war footing against the Taliban, following the massacre in December of 130 boys as they were attending school in the western city of Peshawar.Also on Tuesday, Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief made his latest visit to the Afghan capital, Kabul, in a sign of growing counter-terrorism cooperation between the two often hostile neighbours.Nighat Dad, a human rights activist who was in a mobile phone shop very close to the scene of Tuesday\u2019s blast, said she felt increasingly unsafe in the city.\u201cThe fear in my head is really strong now,\u201d she said. \u201cJust before I had been at the Lahore high court, where there was a huge crowd of lawyers and no one was checking bags and the machines weren\u2019t working. I just had this sixth sense that something was wrong so I rushed out and went to Empress Road.\u201d ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan Taliban suicide bombing in Lahore leaves several dead"},{"date": "2015-02-07T09:00:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For 31 years, Sabruddin enjoyed his life in Pakistan. Though he spent much of his childhood in a refugee camp after escaping war in Afghanistan, his home country, and despite being born with a damaged left hand, Sabruddin managed to carve out a good adult life for himself as a labourer. At 40, he supported a family of eight and had a neat house in the Peshawar valley. His Pakistani neighbours treated him with friendship and respect.But recently, that changed. In December, nine gunmen killed 148 people, most of them children, at a military school in Peshawar. After the massacre, Pakistanis in the country\u2019s north-west province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa turned their anger against Afghans with whom they have lived, side by side, for decades. The school attackers were from the Pakistani Taliban, but all were foreigners and two of them Afghan.This week, police officers came to Sabruddin\u2019s door and threatened him with prison if he did not leave Pakistan immediately. Several people in his village had already been detained. Sabruddin, being his household\u2019s sole provider, could not afford detention. So he bundled his family and a few belongings together and set off in a rented truck.\u201cI could see the situation heating up so I left of my own free will,\u201d Sabruddin said.That kind of \u201cfree will\u201d has prompted a veritable exodus. In the past month, droves of Afghans have left Pakistan to avoid harassment and imprisonment by the country\u2019s authorities, leaving decades of life behind.Since the beginning of January, more than 22,560 Afghans have returned \u201cspontaneously\u201d, as it is termed by the International Organisation of Migration (IOM), which registers returning Afghans at the border and assists the most vulnerable.At the moment, more than 100 Afghan families \u2013 roughly 650 people \u2013 leave Pakistan every day as a result of harassment and threats from authorities and their communities. That is 23 times as many as in December. As of 27 January, approximately 1,500 Afghans have also been forcibly deported, more than one-third of the total number of deportees in 2014.The returning Afghans travel over the Khyber Pass through Torkham, a bustling border crossing that is one of Afghanistan\u2019s main commercial entry points. Every day, about 500 trucks cross the border, kicking up a beige haze of dust. Men push clattering metal carts carrying burqa-clad wives and daughters through checkpoints, as innumerable families trek across in each direction to visit relatives.Queues build up at the border bottleneck regularly, forcing returning families to wait in the relentless sun for hours, at the mercy of nature and manmade bureaucracy. While they wait, representatives from the World Health Organisation comb through trucks and vans to vaccinate toddlers against polio, a disease prevalent in Pakistan but almost eradicated in Afghanistan.Once families are back in Afghanistan, a bleak future awaits. Many have only threads to hang on to: distant relatives or a plot of land that may have been taken over. Richard Danziger, chief of mission for IOM in Afghanistan, says that most Afghans who are returning spontaneously have spent between 15 and 25 years in Pakistan, \u201cso they have very little to come back to\u201d.When Abdul Qader, 55, left the northern Afghan city of Kunduz, his house was half-built. That was 32 years ago, but now he has nowhere else to go. His only option is to return to a property in unknown condition, and to a plot of land that may have been claimed by somebody else. Earlier this week, he was woken up at midnight when police broke through his front gate in Gujarat, and pushed his entire family into minibuses.\u201cDuring my time in Pakistan I have seen a lot of police oppression and harassment of Afghans, but at least they were respectful to the women,\u201d Qader said. \u201cThis time, they touched the women and shoved them into vehicles.\u201dPakistan is home to at least 1 million Afghans without official documents, who are exposed to the risk of sudden eviction. Another 1.7 million Afghans are registered refugees in Pakistan. The provincial government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has announced plans to expel all undocumented Afghans from the province. The authorities did the same in 2012, but backed down after international pressure.If the current pattern continues, the high volume of returning Afghans could affect cross-border relations in a predominantly Pashtun region. Strong tribal ties have historically eased settlement for Afghans in Pakistan, even if they lacked documents. But some of the returning Afghans said those ties have now become strained.\u201cThe Pakistani people were good to us. Let me give you an example: when my house burned down, Pakistanis gave clothes to my daughter,\u201d says Gul Agha, a labourer who crossed the Torkham border on Thursday. In early January, the police in Peshawar jailed Agha for a month, until he heeded their threats and left the country.\u201cThe army and the police were always bad,\u201d Agha says. It was the way his neighbours started treating him differently that surprised him. \u201cAfter the attack, they said: \u2018How can you be Muslim and kill other Muslims?\u2019\u201d", "tags": ["Global development", "Migration and development", "Afghanistan", "Pakistan"], "title": "Afghans leave Pakistan with nothing as Peshawar massacre prompts crackdown | Sune Engel Rasmussen"},{"date": "2015-02-13T14:32:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Pakistani Taliban continued their deadly sectarian campaign on Friday with an assault by suicide attackers on a packed prayer hall full of Shia worshippers that left 19 dead.A further 40 people were injured when up to five militants stormed the Imamia Masjid Imambargah in central Peshawar, the troubled city in Pakistan\u2019s north-west where more than 130 teenage boys were killed in December\u2019s Army Public School massacre.The attack was launched during Friday prayers, the busiest moment of the week, and executed by young men carrying grenades, assault rifles and suicide bomb vests.The provincial police chief Nasir Durrani said the men avoided guards on the main gate of the hall by climbing over a wall from a neighbouring construction site and cutting through barbed wire.Security had been posted at the entrance as the compound is an obvious target for sectarian terrorists and close to various government buildings.Two men died after detonating their bombs and another three were killed by worshippers, according to Durrani.\u201cPeople here showed great courage. They grabbed one of the attackers from his neck, and he couldn\u2019t detonate [his explosives], and he was shot and killed,\u201d Durrani said.Local television showed chaotic scenes of worshippers fleeing the ongoing attack, some carrying the injured to safety.The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the country\u2019s largest militant alliance, immediately claimed responsibility, saying it was revenge for the execution by the government of a militant known as Dr Usman, a former army medic involved in a 2009 attack on the army\u2019s headquarters.Pakistan dropped an informal moratorium on the death penalty amid national outrage over the Peshawar school massacre, and several prisoners who had been on death row have been executed.The December school attack prompted the government to launch a 20-point strategy to tackle the terrorism and extremism that has plagued the country for years.There were promises to regulate religious seminaries and ban militant groups, and the army continues to fight against the TTP in North Waziristan, a region bordering Afghanistan.The military claims the operation is a success and has helped improve security in the country. There has been a significant fall in violence following the military campaign in North Waziristan but the country remains vulnerable.The TTP says it is fighting to turn Pakistan into a strict sharia law state, although it also regularly launches sectarian attacks against Shias.Friday\u2019s incident came two weeks after the bombing of another Shia imambargah in southern Pakistan, which killed 61 people and was the deadliest sectarian attack in two years.The country\u2019s leading Shia community groups declared three days of national mourning on Friday.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Explosions and gunfire at Pakistan prayer hall"},{"date": "2015-01-30T17:38:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A Pakistani group that has affiliated itself to Islamic State (Isis) has killed more than 60 people in a bombing of a Shia mosque, one of the deadliest sectarian atrocities in\u00a0years.The explosive device ripped through a Shia imambargah, or prayer hall, in the southern Pakistani city of Shikarpur during the weekly Friday prayers when the building was packed with around 400 worshippers.Saqib Ismail Memon, police chief of the city in Sindh province, said it was unclear whether the explosion was caused by a suicide bomber or a device left in the building.Either way, the huge explosion was felt for miles around and had enough force to wound 60 more worshippers and cause a section of the building to collapse.Witnesses said people frantically attempted to dig bodies out of the rubble while others were rushed to hospital in cars and rickshaws.\u201cThe area is scattered with blood and flesh and it smells of burnt meat, people are screaming at each other \u2026 it is chaos,\u201d said a witness, Zahid Noon.Mohabbat Ali Bablani, a Shikarpur resident, said four of his cousins, aged between 30 and 40, were killed in the blast while his friend had lost five children, all under 13. \u201cNizam-ud-Din Sheikh has lost his five sons. He had taken them with him to offer prayers and all of them were killed in the attack,\u201d he said.Fahad Marwat, a spokesman for a militant Sunni group called Jundullah, told Reuters they had targeted the building because the Shias \u201care our enemies\u201d.Little is known with certainty about the shadowy group, itself an offshoot of the Pakistani Taliban, a once dominant but now increasingly frayed national militant alliance.Jundullah has been linked to a number of major attacks including the suicide bombing of a church in the city of Peshawar in 2013 that killed around 80 Christians.In November the group said it had sworn allegiance to Isis.At the time a spokesman claimed Jundullah had met a three-man delegation from Isis, although analysts disagree over the extent of Isis\u2019s influence in Pakistan, which is already home to dozens of established militant groups.Many of them share aims and ideas, including a hatred of Pakistan\u2019s Shia minority, whom they consider heretics and worthy of death.The rise of Isis in Iraq has electrified many jihadists in Pakistan and pro-Isis leaflets, graffiti and posters have appeared around the country.Friday\u2019s bombing was the most deadly single sectarian attack since March 2013, when a car bomb killed 45 people in a Shia neighbourhood of the port city of Karachi.Majlis Wahdat-e-Muslimeen, a Shia organisation, has called for a province-wide strike on Saturday in protest at the Shikarpur killing.The attack comes at a time when the government is attempting to enact a 20-point national action plan to eradicate terrorism and extremism in the wake of the December attack on a the Army public school in Peshawar that killed more than 130 schoolboys.To that end the government has reinstated the death penalty for convicted terrorists and agreed to set up military courts to hear terrorism cases.Many analysts fret, however, that the government will struggle to combat Pakistan\u2019s deeply entrenched network of jihadists and their sympathisers.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Islamic State", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan Shia mosque bombing kills dozens"},{"date": "2015-03-13T16:32:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan, the country that has been subjected to more secret US drone strikes than any other, has hailed the development of its first unmanned combat plane as a \u201cgreat national achievement\u201d. Related: 41 men targeted but 1,147 people killed: US drone strikes \u2013 the facts on the ground In a significant breakthrough, the country\u2019s army announced on Friday it had successfully test-fired a missile from an indigenously developed drone \u2013 a technical feat few nations have managed.Army chief Raheel Sharif was among the engineers and scientists who witnessed the demonstration of a technology that has largely been the reserve of a few countries, such as the US and Israel.The army said the drone, named Burraq after the flying horse of Islamic tradition, successfully hit stationary and moving targets with its Barq laser-guided missile with \u201cimpressive pinpoint accuracy\u201d.The system would be a \u201cforce multiplier in our anti-terror campaign\u201d, said an army spokesman, Asim Bajwa.Developing homemade drones has been a priority for Pakistan given the extensive use made of them since 2004 by the CIA to target terrorist groups in the restive north-west tribal belt.The controversial weapons have proved irresistible given their ability to linger over their targets for extended periods of time, collect intelligence and deliver deadly missiles far more cheaply than conventional aircraft.But the US supplies only its most trustworthy allies with the capability and has refused repeated requests from Pakistan, which has been attempting to join the club of countries with armed drones for at least two years. Although it already has surveillance drones, arming them requires numerous technical problems to be overcome.During the ongoing \u201cOperation Zarb-e-Azb\u201d operation against militants in North Waziristan, a major sanctuary for militant groups bordering Afghanistan, the country has made extensive use of bombs dropped from fighter planes.The army has repeatedly claimed no civilians were killed in the extensive air campaign, but the claim has been impossible to verify.US drone attacks have been decried by many Pakistanis and activists around the world who claim innocent lives have been lost and entire civilian populations traumatised by the continued presence of drones.Islamabad makes diplomatic protests against US drone strikes as a matter of routine, although there is considerable evidence Pakistan has given its consent to the strikes.Although the military recognises the US drone campaign has been effective, many believe it is an unacceptable infringement on the country\u2019s sovereignty.According to the independent Bureau of Investigative Journalism, the CIA has carried out 413 drone strikes in Pakistan since 2004.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Drones (military)", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan military's new combat drone is 'great national achievement'"},{"date": "2015-02-17T12:28:08Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "A fatal suicide bomb has torn through crowds on the normally placid streets of Lahore, reportedly killing several people, as the Pakistani city gears up to host one of the country\u2019s biggest cultural events this weekend.The bombing outside a major police compound killed at least five people on Empress Road, one of the city\u2019s major thoroughfares, which is a short distance from the venue of the Lahore literary festival. A Taliban splinter group called Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan Jamaatul Ahrar (TTP-JA) claimed responsibility for the attack, which a spokesman said was a response to recent executions of some of their members by the Islamabad government.\u201cWe want to make it clear to the rulers that we will take revenge for the blood of innocent Muslims \u2013 our operations will continue till an Islamic system is imposed,\u201d the group\u2019s spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan, said in an emailed statement.Officials believe the bomber was attempting to blast the entrance gate of the police compound, which is close to important government buildings and a shrine.Police officials and the emergency medical charity Edhi gave conflicting numbers of victims, with the provincial home minister Shuja Khanzada claiming four civilians and one policeman had been killed, while another that 17 were injured. Edhi, which runs ambulances that quickly appear at bomb sites, said eight people had been killed.Lahore, the affluent capital of Punjab province, has been spared much of the terrorist violence that has afflicted many other parts of the country in the last decade.The most recent attack occurred in November at an evening military ceremony at Wagah, a border crossing with India around 12 miles from the city centre. That attack, also claimed by TTP-JA, killed more than 60 people. The latest bombing will cast a shadow over the city\u2019s three-day literary festival that begins on Friday.Non-religious public gatherings are increasingly rare in the country and the event has proved a hit since it was first launched in 2013, attracting an estimated 50,000 last year.Organisers say the gathering of book lovers challenges Pakistan\u2019s reputation for extremist violence but concede some international authors have needed reassurance that Lahore is not the epicentre of terrorism. Ahmed Rashid, a writer and one of the organisers, said a couple of foreign authors had been put off this year by government travel warnings and the tide of bad news about militant attacks on the country.But Nuscie Jamil, a member of the organising committee, said security was a top priority for the festival and the Lahore police.\u201cAll measures are in place to ensure everyone\u2019s safety and there are no plans to cancel or shorten the programme,\u201d she said.Pakistan is currently on a war footing against the Taliban, following the massacre in December of 130 boys as they were attending school in the western city of Peshawar.Also on Tuesday, Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief made his latest visit to the Afghan capital, Kabul, in a sign of growing counter-terrorism cooperation between the two often hostile neighbours.Nighat Dad, a human rights activist who was in a mobile phone shop very close to the scene of Tuesday\u2019s blast, said she felt increasingly unsafe in the city.\u201cThe fear in my head is really strong now,\u201d she said. \u201cJust before I had been at the Lahore high court, where there was a huge crowd of lawyers and no one was checking bags and the machines weren\u2019t working. I just had this sixth sense that something was wrong so I rushed out and went to Empress Road.\u201d ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news", "Taliban"], "title": "Pakistan Taliban suicide bombing in Lahore leaves several dead"},{"date": "2015-02-07T09:00:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For 31 years, Sabruddin enjoyed his life in Pakistan. Though he spent much of his childhood in a refugee camp after escaping war in Afghanistan, his home country, and despite being born with a damaged left hand, Sabruddin managed to carve out a good adult life for himself as a labourer. At 40, he supported a family of eight and had a neat house in the Peshawar valley. His Pakistani neighbours treated him with friendship and respect.But recently, that changed. In December, nine gunmen killed 148 people, most of them children, at a military school in Peshawar. After the massacre, Pakistanis in the country\u2019s north-west province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa turned their anger against Afghans with whom they have lived, side by side, for decades. The school attackers were from the Pakistani Taliban, but all were foreigners and two of them Afghan.This week, police officers came to Sabruddin\u2019s door and threatened him with prison if he did not leave Pakistan immediately. Several people in his village had already been detained. Sabruddin, being his household\u2019s sole provider, could not afford detention. So he bundled his family and a few belongings together and set off in a rented truck.\u201cI could see the situation heating up so I left of my own free will,\u201d Sabruddin said.That kind of \u201cfree will\u201d has prompted a veritable exodus. In the past month, droves of Afghans have left Pakistan to avoid harassment and imprisonment by the country\u2019s authorities, leaving decades of life behind.Since the beginning of January, more than 22,560 Afghans have returned \u201cspontaneously\u201d, as it is termed by the International Organisation of Migration (IOM), which registers returning Afghans at the border and assists the most vulnerable.At the moment, more than 100 Afghan families \u2013 roughly 650 people \u2013 leave Pakistan every day as a result of harassment and threats from authorities and their communities. That is 23 times as many as in December. As of 27 January, approximately 1,500 Afghans have also been forcibly deported, more than one-third of the total number of deportees in 2014.The returning Afghans travel over the Khyber Pass through Torkham, a bustling border crossing that is one of Afghanistan\u2019s main commercial entry points. Every day, about 500 trucks cross the border, kicking up a beige haze of dust. Men push clattering metal carts carrying burqa-clad wives and daughters through checkpoints, as innumerable families trek across in each direction to visit relatives.Queues build up at the border bottleneck regularly, forcing returning families to wait in the relentless sun for hours, at the mercy of nature and manmade bureaucracy. While they wait, representatives from the World Health Organisation comb through trucks and vans to vaccinate toddlers against polio, a disease prevalent in Pakistan but almost eradicated in Afghanistan.Once families are back in Afghanistan, a bleak future awaits. Many have only threads to hang on to: distant relatives or a plot of land that may have been taken over. Richard Danziger, chief of mission for IOM in Afghanistan, says that most Afghans who are returning spontaneously have spent between 15 and 25 years in Pakistan, \u201cso they have very little to come back to\u201d.When Abdul Qader, 55, left the northern Afghan city of Kunduz, his house was half-built. That was 32 years ago, but now he has nowhere else to go. His only option is to return to a property in unknown condition, and to a plot of land that may have been claimed by somebody else. Earlier this week, he was woken up at midnight when police broke through his front gate in Gujarat, and pushed his entire family into minibuses.\u201cDuring my time in Pakistan I have seen a lot of police oppression and harassment of Afghans, but at least they were respectful to the women,\u201d Qader said. \u201cThis time, they touched the women and shoved them into vehicles.\u201dPakistan is home to at least 1 million Afghans without official documents, who are exposed to the risk of sudden eviction. Another 1.7 million Afghans are registered refugees in Pakistan. The provincial government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has announced plans to expel all undocumented Afghans from the province. The authorities did the same in 2012, but backed down after international pressure.If the current pattern continues, the high volume of returning Afghans could affect cross-border relations in a predominantly Pashtun region. Strong tribal ties have historically eased settlement for Afghans in Pakistan, even if they lacked documents. But some of the returning Afghans said those ties have now become strained.\u201cThe Pakistani people were good to us. Let me give you an example: when my house burned down, Pakistanis gave clothes to my daughter,\u201d says Gul Agha, a labourer who crossed the Torkham border on Thursday. In early January, the police in Peshawar jailed Agha for a month, until he heeded their threats and left the country.\u201cThe army and the police were always bad,\u201d Agha says. It was the way his neighbours started treating him differently that surprised him. \u201cAfter the attack, they said: \u2018How can you be Muslim and kill other Muslims?\u2019\u201d", "tags": ["Global development", "Migration and development", "Afghanistan", "Pakistan"], "title": "Afghans leave Pakistan with nothing as Peshawar massacre prompts crackdown | Sune Engel Rasmussen"},{"date": "2015-02-06T16:59:37Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The Afghan government has sent some of its soldiers to be trained in Pakistan for the first time as part of an attempt to secure vital regional help to end the decade-long Taliban insurgency.Overcoming years of distrust, six Afghan cadets arrived on Thursday night to begin 18 months of training at the elite officer academy in Abbottabad.The Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani, is determined to improve relations between the two countries. His predecessor Hamid Karzai persistently refused offers of military assistance from Pakistan, which many in Kabul believe secretly supports the Taliban.Afghan officials in the past have expressed fears that soldiers sent to Pakistan could be recruited as spies or that their careers would be stunted by the deep hostility that Afghans harbour towards Pakistan.Janan Mosazai, the Afghan ambassador in Islamabad, urged the cadets to befriend their Pakistani counterparts at the training academy. He said the scheme was an \u201cimportant step in both countries\u2019 efforts to strengthen, broaden and deepen security and particularly military-to-military cooperation\u201d.Rifaat Hussain, a defence expert, said the Pakistani military had long wanted to train Afghan soldiers to provide a counter-balance to training offered by the arch-enemy India. \u201cThe Pakistani military offered training facilities for as long as Karzai was there,\u201d he said. \u201cThis is a step in the right direction because it will help remove doubts Pakistan had about the pro-India orientation of the Afghan forces.\u201dGhani has won plaudits for a well-received visit to Islamabad and for announcing that Afghanistan would not pursue an offer of weapons from India.Soldiers and police have been diverted to Afghanistan\u2019s eastern provinces to fight militant enemies of Pakistan who launch attacks from Afghan territory. And Pakistani officials have been given access to interrogate militants captured in Afghanistan.The Afghan government hopes the measures will help secure Pakistan\u2019s support to curb the Taliban, whose leadership operate from Pakistani territory.But so far Ghani has received little in return for his efforts to woo Pakistan, which are politically unpopular at home. Afghan officials complain that Taliban attacks have not subsided and that Pakistan has not taken steps to control Taliban groups on its territory, despite the launch of a military operation against militants in North Waziristan, bordering Afghanistan.\u201cTime is running out, we need to see real action,\u201d said one Afghan official, adding that Pakistan needed to facilitate a peace process with willing members of the Taliban and expel those uninterested in negotiating with Kabul. \u201cWe want Pakistan to either confront those who are not willing to engage in peace or, at the very least, ask them to pack up and leave.\u201d", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Afghan cadets arrive for first training in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-05-19T07:39:28Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An unprecedented attempt to improve cooperation between Afghan and Pakistani spies has caused uproar in Afghanistan, where politicians and the media accused the government of selling out to a mortal enemy.Pakistan\u2019s army confirmed the two countries\u2019 security agencies signed a memorandum of understanding last week in which Pakistan will help train and equip Afghan intelligence officers, take part in the interrogation of terror suspects and conduct joint operations.It is an astonishing step for Afghanistan\u2019s National Directorate of Security (NDS), which has long accused its opposite numbers at the Pakistani military\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI) of practically directing the Taliban insurgency.It is also the most dramatic gesture yet by Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president who came to power last year determined to win Islamabad\u2019s help in brokering peace talks with the Taliban by offering concessions that would have been unthinkable under his predecessor, Hamid Karzai.Ghani has upset hawks by sending Afghan cadets for training at Pakistan\u2019s officer academy and diverting scarce military resources to fight Pakistani militants hiding in Afghanistan. Even his November 2014 visit to the office of Pakistan\u2019s army chief in the garrison city of Rawalpindi was seen by some as an affront to national pride.We all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from PakistanThere are signs Ghani\u2019s strategy is paying off, with Taliban and Afghan representatives meeting for informal talks in Qatar this month. Last week, Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, travelled to Kabul to deliver an unprecedented public rebuke to the Taliban, which is engaged in a brutal summer campaign of violence. But with the number of attacks soaring, the diplomatic achievements have not been enough to appease Ghani\u2019s critics. On Monday, a senior member of the Afghan parliament ordered the international relations committee to summon NDS officials for a grilling over the intelligence-sharing deal.The immediate backlash highlights the difficult balance Ghani has to strike between pushing for peace and sustaining public support for his government. \u201cWe all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from Pakistan,\u201d said Haroun Mir, a Kabul analyst. \u201cSuddenly we want to share something we don\u2019t share with very close allies with a government we blame for every single attack.\u201dHighlighting its extreme sensitivity, the Afghan government did not formally announce the intelligence-sharing deal and denied that Pakistan will train and equip Afghan officers. Leaks to the Afghan media said that the NDS chief, Rahmatullah Nabil, was against the move. The memorandum of understanding was signed by a deputy NDS director general after Nabil refused to sign, said Davood Moradian, a Kabul-based analyst and ex-aide to Afghanistan\u2019s former national security adviser.\u201cThis was an initiative proposed by the British but the NDS chief refused to sign it despite enormous pressure,\u201d Moradian said. \u201cIt has not only heavily damaged morale within NDS but further damaged the credibility of Ghani and the national unity government.\u201dFollowing the uproar, Ajmal Obaid Abidy, spokesman for Ghani, attempted to play down its significance, saying other memorandums had been signed with the ISI in the past, but he did not say what areas they covered.Opponents of Ghani\u2019s strategy say Nabil and other top intelligence officials have been sidelined by the president and Hanif Atmar, his national security adviser.One former Karzai-era official said many in Kabul were shocked to learn that Nabil was excluded from at least one key meeting between Ghani and the ISI chief, Rizwan Akhtar in the last year.Pakistan has long-pushed for Nabil to be sacked after it emerged the NDS under his watch attempted to recruit Latif Mehsud, then the second most important commander in the Pakistani Taliban, as an intelligence source.Nabil later said the operation to cultivate Mehsud was a bid \u201cto send a message to Pakistan that if they can do this, we also can do it.\u201d Pakistan insists it is trying to push the Taliban \u2013 a movement it helped to power in the mid-1990s and continued to support after 2001 \u2013 towards a peaceful resolution of the conflict.\u201cUnfortunately there is a group [in the NDS] who do not want us to move forward,\u201d said a Pakistani intelligence official. \u201cThey have benefited from all the money that has come to this region and they are not interested in peace.\u201dAmrullah Saleh, the NDS director general from 2004 to 2010, said he would have been ashamed to sign such an agreement and predicted staunch opposition to it. \u201cI think a lot of us consider this a betrayal and a dishonouring of the sacrifices of our defence forces,\u201d he said. \u201cI never negotiated from a position of weakness. I always asked Pakistan to first stop terror, then ask Afghanistan to cooperate.\u201d", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Afghan backlash over security deal with Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-05-19T07:39:28Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An unprecedented attempt to improve cooperation between Afghan and Pakistani spies has caused uproar in Afghanistan, where politicians and the media accused the government of selling out to a mortal enemy.Pakistan\u2019s army confirmed the two countries\u2019 security agencies signed a memorandum of understanding last week in which Pakistan will help train and equip Afghan intelligence officers, take part in the interrogation of terror suspects and conduct joint operations.It is an astonishing step for Afghanistan\u2019s National Directorate of Security (NDS), which has long accused its opposite numbers at the Pakistani military\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI) of practically directing the Taliban insurgency.It is also the most dramatic gesture yet by Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president who came to power last year determined to win Islamabad\u2019s help in brokering peace talks with the Taliban by offering concessions that would have been unthinkable under his predecessor, Hamid Karzai.Ghani has upset hawks by sending Afghan cadets for training at Pakistan\u2019s officer academy and diverting scarce military resources to fight Pakistani militants hiding in Afghanistan. Even his November 2014 visit to the office of Pakistan\u2019s army chief in the garrison city of Rawalpindi was seen by some as an affront to national pride.We all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from PakistanThere are signs Ghani\u2019s strategy is paying off, with Taliban and Afghan representatives meeting for informal talks in Qatar this month. Last week, Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, travelled to Kabul to deliver an unprecedented public rebuke to the Taliban, which is engaged in a brutal summer campaign of violence. But with the number of attacks soaring, the diplomatic achievements have not been enough to appease Ghani\u2019s critics. On Monday, a senior member of the Afghan parliament ordered the international relations committee to summon NDS officials for a grilling over the intelligence-sharing deal.The immediate backlash highlights the difficult balance Ghani has to strike between pushing for peace and sustaining public support for his government. \u201cWe all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from Pakistan,\u201d said Haroun Mir, a Kabul analyst. \u201cSuddenly we want to share something we don\u2019t share with very close allies with a government we blame for every single attack.\u201dHighlighting its extreme sensitivity, the Afghan government did not formally announce the intelligence-sharing deal and denied that Pakistan will train and equip Afghan officers. Leaks to the Afghan media said that the NDS chief, Rahmatullah Nabil, was against the move. The memorandum of understanding was signed by a deputy NDS director general after Nabil refused to sign, said Davood Moradian, a Kabul-based analyst and ex-aide to Afghanistan\u2019s former national security adviser.\u201cThis was an initiative proposed by the British but the NDS chief refused to sign it despite enormous pressure,\u201d Moradian said. \u201cIt has not only heavily damaged morale within NDS but further damaged the credibility of Ghani and the national unity government.\u201dFollowing the uproar, Ajmal Obaid Abidy, spokesman for Ghani, attempted to play down its significance, saying other memorandums had been signed with the ISI in the past, but he did not say what areas they covered.Opponents of Ghani\u2019s strategy say Nabil and other top intelligence officials have been sidelined by the president and Hanif Atmar, his national security adviser.One former Karzai-era official said many in Kabul were shocked to learn that Nabil was excluded from at least one key meeting between Ghani and the ISI chief, Rizwan Akhtar in the last year.Pakistan has long-pushed for Nabil to be sacked after it emerged the NDS under his watch attempted to recruit Latif Mehsud, then the second most important commander in the Pakistani Taliban, as an intelligence source.Nabil later said the operation to cultivate Mehsud was a bid \u201cto send a message to Pakistan that if they can do this, we also can do it.\u201d Pakistan insists it is trying to push the Taliban \u2013 a movement it helped to power in the mid-1990s and continued to support after 2001 \u2013 towards a peaceful resolution of the conflict.\u201cUnfortunately there is a group [in the NDS] who do not want us to move forward,\u201d said a Pakistani intelligence official. \u201cThey have benefited from all the money that has come to this region and they are not interested in peace.\u201dAmrullah Saleh, the NDS director general from 2004 to 2010, said he would have been ashamed to sign such an agreement and predicted staunch opposition to it. \u201cI think a lot of us consider this a betrayal and a dishonouring of the sacrifices of our defence forces,\u201d he said. \u201cI never negotiated from a position of weakness. I always asked Pakistan to first stop terror, then ask Afghanistan to cooperate.\u201d", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Afghan backlash over security deal with Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-30T17:39:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten men involved in the attempt to kill Malala Yousafzai have been sentenced to life in prison by a Pakistani court, lawyers involved in the case have said.None of the men was in the team who shot the education activist in the head as she sat in a school minivan in 2012, but a security official said they had been part of a wider group of plotters involved in the planning and execution of the attack.The point-blank shooting of the then 15-year-old at the behest of the Pakistani Taliban caused global outrage and Malala later became the youngest ever winner of the Nobel prize. Related: Malala Yousafzai accepts Nobel peace prize with attack on arms spending One military source said on Thursday that only two of the 10 men had been sentenced by the anti-terrorism court in the city of Mingora, the capital of Malala\u2019s native Swat.However, court officials and lawyers involved in the case insisted all 10 had been given sentences of 25 years.The men\u2019s sentences for attempted murder could be increased if additional charges are brought against them.They were arrested in September last year in a swoop involving multiple security agencies and accused of being part of a group tasked by the Pakistani Taliban leader, Mullah Fazlullah, with killing a series of high-profile people, including Malala.She had infuriated the militants both with her advocacy for female education and her fearless public criticism of them.Malala first began exposing the miseries of life under militant rule in 2009 when, at the age of 12, she began blogging about life under the Taliban in Swat for the BBC Urdu website.A Pakistani offshoot of the Taliban had gradually come to dominate the picturesque region of Swat, implementing its version of Sharia law, which included public floggings and banning girls from going to school.The man believed to have fired the bullet at Malala\u2019s head, a militant called Ataullah Khan, is believed to be hiding in Afghanistan.Although Malala is celebrated around the world as a symbol of the struggle for female education, many in Pakistan are suspicious of the praise heaped on her by the west. She has lived in the UK since being taken there for life-saving treatment at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Birmingham.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Equality", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Gender", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan court jails 10 for Malala attack"},{"date": "2015-05-19T07:39:28Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An unprecedented attempt to improve cooperation between Afghan and Pakistani spies has caused uproar in Afghanistan, where politicians and the media accused the government of selling out to a mortal enemy.Pakistan\u2019s army confirmed the two countries\u2019 security agencies signed a memorandum of understanding last week in which Pakistan will help train and equip Afghan intelligence officers, take part in the interrogation of terror suspects and conduct joint operations.It is an astonishing step for Afghanistan\u2019s National Directorate of Security (NDS), which has long accused its opposite numbers at the Pakistani military\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI) of practically directing the Taliban insurgency.It is also the most dramatic gesture yet by Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president who came to power last year determined to win Islamabad\u2019s help in brokering peace talks with the Taliban by offering concessions that would have been unthinkable under his predecessor, Hamid Karzai.Ghani has upset hawks by sending Afghan cadets for training at Pakistan\u2019s officer academy and diverting scarce military resources to fight Pakistani militants hiding in Afghanistan. Even his November 2014 visit to the office of Pakistan\u2019s army chief in the garrison city of Rawalpindi was seen by some as an affront to national pride.We all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from PakistanThere are signs Ghani\u2019s strategy is paying off, with Taliban and Afghan representatives meeting for informal talks in Qatar this month. Last week, Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, travelled to Kabul to deliver an unprecedented public rebuke to the Taliban, which is engaged in a brutal summer campaign of violence. But with the number of attacks soaring, the diplomatic achievements have not been enough to appease Ghani\u2019s critics. On Monday, a senior member of the Afghan parliament ordered the international relations committee to summon NDS officials for a grilling over the intelligence-sharing deal.The immediate backlash highlights the difficult balance Ghani has to strike between pushing for peace and sustaining public support for his government. \u201cWe all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from Pakistan,\u201d said Haroun Mir, a Kabul analyst. \u201cSuddenly we want to share something we don\u2019t share with very close allies with a government we blame for every single attack.\u201dHighlighting its extreme sensitivity, the Afghan government did not formally announce the intelligence-sharing deal and denied that Pakistan will train and equip Afghan officers. Leaks to the Afghan media said that the NDS chief, Rahmatullah Nabil, was against the move. The memorandum of understanding was signed by a deputy NDS director general after Nabil refused to sign, said Davood Moradian, a Kabul-based analyst and ex-aide to Afghanistan\u2019s former national security adviser.\u201cThis was an initiative proposed by the British but the NDS chief refused to sign it despite enormous pressure,\u201d Moradian said. \u201cIt has not only heavily damaged morale within NDS but further damaged the credibility of Ghani and the national unity government.\u201dFollowing the uproar, Ajmal Obaid Abidy, spokesman for Ghani, attempted to play down its significance, saying other memorandums had been signed with the ISI in the past, but he did not say what areas they covered.Opponents of Ghani\u2019s strategy say Nabil and other top intelligence officials have been sidelined by the president and Hanif Atmar, his national security adviser.One former Karzai-era official said many in Kabul were shocked to learn that Nabil was excluded from at least one key meeting between Ghani and the ISI chief, Rizwan Akhtar in the last year.Pakistan has long-pushed for Nabil to be sacked after it emerged the NDS under his watch attempted to recruit Latif Mehsud, then the second most important commander in the Pakistani Taliban, as an intelligence source.Nabil later said the operation to cultivate Mehsud was a bid \u201cto send a message to Pakistan that if they can do this, we also can do it.\u201d Pakistan insists it is trying to push the Taliban \u2013 a movement it helped to power in the mid-1990s and continued to support after 2001 \u2013 towards a peaceful resolution of the conflict.\u201cUnfortunately there is a group [in the NDS] who do not want us to move forward,\u201d said a Pakistani intelligence official. \u201cThey have benefited from all the money that has come to this region and they are not interested in peace.\u201dAmrullah Saleh, the NDS director general from 2004 to 2010, said he would have been ashamed to sign such an agreement and predicted staunch opposition to it. \u201cI think a lot of us consider this a betrayal and a dishonouring of the sacrifices of our defence forces,\u201d he said. \u201cI never negotiated from a position of weakness. I always asked Pakistan to first stop terror, then ask Afghanistan to cooperate.\u201d", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Afghan backlash over security deal with Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-30T17:39:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten men involved in the attempt to kill Malala Yousafzai have been sentenced to life in prison by a Pakistani court, lawyers involved in the case have said.None of the men was in the team who shot the education activist in the head as she sat in a school minivan in 2012, but a security official said they had been part of a wider group of plotters involved in the planning and execution of the attack.The point-blank shooting of the then 15-year-old at the behest of the Pakistani Taliban caused global outrage and Malala later became the youngest ever winner of the Nobel prize. Related: Malala Yousafzai accepts Nobel peace prize with attack on arms spending One military source said on Thursday that only two of the 10 men had been sentenced by the anti-terrorism court in the city of Mingora, the capital of Malala\u2019s native Swat.However, court officials and lawyers involved in the case insisted all 10 had been given sentences of 25 years.The men\u2019s sentences for attempted murder could be increased if additional charges are brought against them.They were arrested in September last year in a swoop involving multiple security agencies and accused of being part of a group tasked by the Pakistani Taliban leader, Mullah Fazlullah, with killing a series of high-profile people, including Malala.She had infuriated the militants both with her advocacy for female education and her fearless public criticism of them.Malala first began exposing the miseries of life under militant rule in 2009 when, at the age of 12, she began blogging about life under the Taliban in Swat for the BBC Urdu website.A Pakistani offshoot of the Taliban had gradually come to dominate the picturesque region of Swat, implementing its version of Sharia law, which included public floggings and banning girls from going to school.The man believed to have fired the bullet at Malala\u2019s head, a militant called Ataullah Khan, is believed to be hiding in Afghanistan.Although Malala is celebrated around the world as a symbol of the struggle for female education, many in Pakistan are suspicious of the praise heaped on her by the west. She has lived in the UK since being taken there for life-saving treatment at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Birmingham.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Equality", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Gender", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan court jails 10 for Malala attack"},{"date": "2015-04-02T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Identify why children are not in school: The biggest factor is economic constraints, and the fact that kids often need to choose between work and school. In an ideal world, we would be able to demonstrate the link between schools and future earnings. We need to get better at promoting the value of education to parents and children. Madeeha Ansari, writer and independent consultant, London, UK @madeeha_ansariSet universal minimum standards for schools: What makes a primary or a secondary school? Currently, you see a school under a tree with two teachers in one place but a primary school with a huge building and many teachers in another place - the same is the case for curriculum, teachers\u2019 qualifications and examinations. Government, community and private schools should have to adhere to the same basic principles. Dr Mir Afzal Tajik, director, Aga Khan University\u2019s Institute for Educational Development, Karachi, PakistanProvide transport for children and teachers: Lack of safe transportation is a major factor in teacher absenteeism and fatigue. It also affects children\u2019s attendance. School van transport is a valuable perk for our teachers. Amjad Noorani, education activist (Pakistan), The Citizens Foundation, San Francisco, USA @amjadtcfusa @TCFPakMobilise parents: For girls, parents are the biggest impediment to their education. More than half of girls who are out of school lack either parental consent or ability to pay schools fees. We need to advocate more for parents to get involved with community schools \u2013 whether they are on the management committee, or helping with the building, financing or security at their child\u2019s school. Roohi Abdullah, lead and initiator, Girl Rising Pakistan, Washington DC, USA @GirlRisingPakHold politicians to account: Central government and provincial governments have good intentions but no one\u2019s political stakes are invested in delivering that \u201cbetter\u201d set of outcomes, so they leave it to donors and NGOs. Until we can get Pakistani leaders to view a dysfunctional education regime as a political liability, we will keep grasping at non-solutions. Mosharraf Zaidi, campaign director, Alif Ailaan, Islamabad, Pakistan @mosharrafzaidiGet the private sector to offer more scholarships: The government could provide private schools with attractive packages such as cheaper utility bills in return for them making at least 10% of their places available for free to poor students. This could be especially effective in areas government schools have failed to reach. Zobaida Jalal, former minister of education, Balochistan, Pakistan @ZobaidaJalalScrap teaching in English:  We focus on English too much which is why we\u2019ve ended up with so much rote learning. Many teachers are trying to teach in a language they\u2019re not even fully competent in. Meanwhile, children who are confident in their own language are condemned as dumb if they can\u2019t pick up English. Zubeida Mustafa, columnist for Dawn, Karachi, Pakistan @zubeidamustafa @dawn_comListen to teachers: What do they need to be more effective? What needs to change for them to increase motivation and spend more time in the classroom? This feedback is not adequately collected or used at the moment. Adam Hall, project manager (education),  Adam Smith International, London, UKOffer stipends to girls: It\u2019s a slightly controversial method but in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa we found that providing stipends to girls at risk increased girls\u2019 attendance. Of course setting the amount for a stipend is very tricky to make sure it is not too expensive to do at scale, but we\u2019ve delivered 400,000 so far. Adam HallMake provisions for children with special needs: I think we always neglect the children with special needs and their education in our society. As minister for special education, I came out with a national plan of action for people with disabilities and the most vital element was inclusive education. Unfortunately, I haven\u2019t seen it widely implemented yet. Zobaida JalalCollect a wider variety of data: Most government data is focused on school building contracts and teachers\u2019 salaries, rather than on what the children are learning. How about running community focus groups routinely and having more nimble programmes that allow for mid-course correction? Noorulain Masood, CEO, Teach For Pakistan, Karachi, Pakistan @Noor_MasoodIncentivise teachers to learn as they earn: Teachers should be encouraged with salary incentives to take college qualifications and get a bachelors degree. Additionally, annual professional development workshops and in-service training should be provided. Higher competency should be rewarded. Amjad NooraniTake sanitation seriously: At our schools we have cleaning staff to maintain toilets during school hours. They also help with hygiene of young kids before they go to class as many children are from homes that do not have running water. Toilets, sanitation and privacy are not a trivial requirement. Amjad NooraniAdapt teaching techniques for volatile situations: Where schools are frequently closed due to violence, one possibility is home schooling. For example, in Ebola-affected Sierra Leone we moved to delivering educational radio programmes. Tricia Young, director, Child to Child, London, UK @ChildtoChildRead the full Q&A here.Is there anything that we\u2019ve left out? Leave your thoughts in the comments below.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Impact and effectiveness", "Global development professionals network", "Education", "Pakistan", "World news", "Gender", "The gender gap", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "14 routes to better education in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-05-19T07:39:28Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An unprecedented attempt to improve cooperation between Afghan and Pakistani spies has caused uproar in Afghanistan, where politicians and the media accused the government of selling out to a mortal enemy.Pakistan\u2019s army confirmed the two countries\u2019 security agencies signed a memorandum of understanding last week in which Pakistan will help train and equip Afghan intelligence officers, take part in the interrogation of terror suspects and conduct joint operations.It is an astonishing step for Afghanistan\u2019s National Directorate of Security (NDS), which has long accused its opposite numbers at the Pakistani military\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI) of practically directing the Taliban insurgency.It is also the most dramatic gesture yet by Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president who came to power last year determined to win Islamabad\u2019s help in brokering peace talks with the Taliban by offering concessions that would have been unthinkable under his predecessor, Hamid Karzai.Ghani has upset hawks by sending Afghan cadets for training at Pakistan\u2019s officer academy and diverting scarce military resources to fight Pakistani militants hiding in Afghanistan. Even his November 2014 visit to the office of Pakistan\u2019s army chief in the garrison city of Rawalpindi was seen by some as an affront to national pride.We all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from PakistanThere are signs Ghani\u2019s strategy is paying off, with Taliban and Afghan representatives meeting for informal talks in Qatar this month. Last week, Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, travelled to Kabul to deliver an unprecedented public rebuke to the Taliban, which is engaged in a brutal summer campaign of violence. But with the number of attacks soaring, the diplomatic achievements have not been enough to appease Ghani\u2019s critics. On Monday, a senior member of the Afghan parliament ordered the international relations committee to summon NDS officials for a grilling over the intelligence-sharing deal.The immediate backlash highlights the difficult balance Ghani has to strike between pushing for peace and sustaining public support for his government. \u201cWe all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from Pakistan,\u201d said Haroun Mir, a Kabul analyst. \u201cSuddenly we want to share something we don\u2019t share with very close allies with a government we blame for every single attack.\u201dHighlighting its extreme sensitivity, the Afghan government did not formally announce the intelligence-sharing deal and denied that Pakistan will train and equip Afghan officers. Leaks to the Afghan media said that the NDS chief, Rahmatullah Nabil, was against the move. The memorandum of understanding was signed by a deputy NDS director general after Nabil refused to sign, said Davood Moradian, a Kabul-based analyst and ex-aide to Afghanistan\u2019s former national security adviser.\u201cThis was an initiative proposed by the British but the NDS chief refused to sign it despite enormous pressure,\u201d Moradian said. \u201cIt has not only heavily damaged morale within NDS but further damaged the credibility of Ghani and the national unity government.\u201dFollowing the uproar, Ajmal Obaid Abidy, spokesman for Ghani, attempted to play down its significance, saying other memorandums had been signed with the ISI in the past, but he did not say what areas they covered.Opponents of Ghani\u2019s strategy say Nabil and other top intelligence officials have been sidelined by the president and Hanif Atmar, his national security adviser.One former Karzai-era official said many in Kabul were shocked to learn that Nabil was excluded from at least one key meeting between Ghani and the ISI chief, Rizwan Akhtar in the last year.Pakistan has long-pushed for Nabil to be sacked after it emerged the NDS under his watch attempted to recruit Latif Mehsud, then the second most important commander in the Pakistani Taliban, as an intelligence source.Nabil later said the operation to cultivate Mehsud was a bid \u201cto send a message to Pakistan that if they can do this, we also can do it.\u201d Pakistan insists it is trying to push the Taliban \u2013 a movement it helped to power in the mid-1990s and continued to support after 2001 \u2013 towards a peaceful resolution of the conflict.\u201cUnfortunately there is a group [in the NDS] who do not want us to move forward,\u201d said a Pakistani intelligence official. \u201cThey have benefited from all the money that has come to this region and they are not interested in peace.\u201dAmrullah Saleh, the NDS director general from 2004 to 2010, said he would have been ashamed to sign such an agreement and predicted staunch opposition to it. \u201cI think a lot of us consider this a betrayal and a dishonouring of the sacrifices of our defence forces,\u201d he said. \u201cI never negotiated from a position of weakness. I always asked Pakistan to first stop terror, then ask Afghanistan to cooperate.\u201d", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Afghan backlash over security deal with Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-30T17:39:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten men involved in the attempt to kill Malala Yousafzai have been sentenced to life in prison by a Pakistani court, lawyers involved in the case have said.None of the men was in the team who shot the education activist in the head as she sat in a school minivan in 2012, but a security official said they had been part of a wider group of plotters involved in the planning and execution of the attack.The point-blank shooting of the then 15-year-old at the behest of the Pakistani Taliban caused global outrage and Malala later became the youngest ever winner of the Nobel prize. Related: Malala Yousafzai accepts Nobel peace prize with attack on arms spending One military source said on Thursday that only two of the 10 men had been sentenced by the anti-terrorism court in the city of Mingora, the capital of Malala\u2019s native Swat.However, court officials and lawyers involved in the case insisted all 10 had been given sentences of 25 years.The men\u2019s sentences for attempted murder could be increased if additional charges are brought against them.They were arrested in September last year in a swoop involving multiple security agencies and accused of being part of a group tasked by the Pakistani Taliban leader, Mullah Fazlullah, with killing a series of high-profile people, including Malala.She had infuriated the militants both with her advocacy for female education and her fearless public criticism of them.Malala first began exposing the miseries of life under militant rule in 2009 when, at the age of 12, she began blogging about life under the Taliban in Swat for the BBC Urdu website.A Pakistani offshoot of the Taliban had gradually come to dominate the picturesque region of Swat, implementing its version of Sharia law, which included public floggings and banning girls from going to school.The man believed to have fired the bullet at Malala\u2019s head, a militant called Ataullah Khan, is believed to be hiding in Afghanistan.Although Malala is celebrated around the world as a symbol of the struggle for female education, many in Pakistan are suspicious of the praise heaped on her by the west. She has lived in the UK since being taken there for life-saving treatment at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Birmingham.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Equality", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Gender", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan court jails 10 for Malala attack"},{"date": "2015-04-02T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Identify why children are not in school: The biggest factor is economic constraints, and the fact that kids often need to choose between work and school. In an ideal world, we would be able to demonstrate the link between schools and future earnings. We need to get better at promoting the value of education to parents and children. Madeeha Ansari, writer and independent consultant, London, UK @madeeha_ansariSet universal minimum standards for schools: What makes a primary or a secondary school? Currently, you see a school under a tree with two teachers in one place but a primary school with a huge building and many teachers in another place - the same is the case for curriculum, teachers\u2019 qualifications and examinations. Government, community and private schools should have to adhere to the same basic principles. Dr Mir Afzal Tajik, director, Aga Khan University\u2019s Institute for Educational Development, Karachi, PakistanProvide transport for children and teachers: Lack of safe transportation is a major factor in teacher absenteeism and fatigue. It also affects children\u2019s attendance. School van transport is a valuable perk for our teachers. Amjad Noorani, education activist (Pakistan), The Citizens Foundation, San Francisco, USA @amjadtcfusa @TCFPakMobilise parents: For girls, parents are the biggest impediment to their education. More than half of girls who are out of school lack either parental consent or ability to pay schools fees. We need to advocate more for parents to get involved with community schools \u2013 whether they are on the management committee, or helping with the building, financing or security at their child\u2019s school. Roohi Abdullah, lead and initiator, Girl Rising Pakistan, Washington DC, USA @GirlRisingPakHold politicians to account: Central government and provincial governments have good intentions but no one\u2019s political stakes are invested in delivering that \u201cbetter\u201d set of outcomes, so they leave it to donors and NGOs. Until we can get Pakistani leaders to view a dysfunctional education regime as a political liability, we will keep grasping at non-solutions. Mosharraf Zaidi, campaign director, Alif Ailaan, Islamabad, Pakistan @mosharrafzaidiGet the private sector to offer more scholarships: The government could provide private schools with attractive packages such as cheaper utility bills in return for them making at least 10% of their places available for free to poor students. This could be especially effective in areas government schools have failed to reach. Zobaida Jalal, former minister of education, Balochistan, Pakistan @ZobaidaJalalScrap teaching in English:  We focus on English too much which is why we\u2019ve ended up with so much rote learning. Many teachers are trying to teach in a language they\u2019re not even fully competent in. Meanwhile, children who are confident in their own language are condemned as dumb if they can\u2019t pick up English. Zubeida Mustafa, columnist for Dawn, Karachi, Pakistan @zubeidamustafa @dawn_comListen to teachers: What do they need to be more effective? What needs to change for them to increase motivation and spend more time in the classroom? This feedback is not adequately collected or used at the moment. Adam Hall, project manager (education),  Adam Smith International, London, UKOffer stipends to girls: It\u2019s a slightly controversial method but in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa we found that providing stipends to girls at risk increased girls\u2019 attendance. Of course setting the amount for a stipend is very tricky to make sure it is not too expensive to do at scale, but we\u2019ve delivered 400,000 so far. Adam HallMake provisions for children with special needs: I think we always neglect the children with special needs and their education in our society. As minister for special education, I came out with a national plan of action for people with disabilities and the most vital element was inclusive education. Unfortunately, I haven\u2019t seen it widely implemented yet. Zobaida JalalCollect a wider variety of data: Most government data is focused on school building contracts and teachers\u2019 salaries, rather than on what the children are learning. How about running community focus groups routinely and having more nimble programmes that allow for mid-course correction? Noorulain Masood, CEO, Teach For Pakistan, Karachi, Pakistan @Noor_MasoodIncentivise teachers to learn as they earn: Teachers should be encouraged with salary incentives to take college qualifications and get a bachelors degree. Additionally, annual professional development workshops and in-service training should be provided. Higher competency should be rewarded. Amjad NooraniTake sanitation seriously: At our schools we have cleaning staff to maintain toilets during school hours. They also help with hygiene of young kids before they go to class as many children are from homes that do not have running water. Toilets, sanitation and privacy are not a trivial requirement. Amjad NooraniAdapt teaching techniques for volatile situations: Where schools are frequently closed due to violence, one possibility is home schooling. For example, in Ebola-affected Sierra Leone we moved to delivering educational radio programmes. Tricia Young, director, Child to Child, London, UK @ChildtoChildRead the full Q&A here.Is there anything that we\u2019ve left out? Leave your thoughts in the comments below.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Impact and effectiveness", "Global development professionals network", "Education", "Pakistan", "World news", "Gender", "The gender gap", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "14 routes to better education in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-05-29T06:16:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In some of the most socially conservative regions of Pakistan this weekend\u2019s local government elections will be men-only affairs.Local politicians and elders say parties contesting elections for district and village council seats in Hangu and parts of Malakand, districts of the north-western province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), have struck deals barring women from voting.There are fears of similar arrangements across KP, a province bordering Afghanistan where many Pashtun communities observe purdah traditions so strict that many female candidates do not publish photographs on election posters.The cultural difficulties are often compounded by dire security in areas where the Taliban and other militant groups are active.In a parliamentary byelection in Lower Dir this month, none of the eligible 50,000 women in the constituency turned out to vote. One report said mosques broadcast warnings to women, and polling stations were guarded by \u201cbaton-wielding men\u201d who blocked the few women who did try to vote.On Wednesday the high court in Peshawar threw out a petition lodged by 12 women from Lower Dir who demanded the election be re-run. Shahab Khattak, the women\u2019s lawyer, said the case was dismissed after 15 minutes, during which the judge seemed unsure whether women really were entitled to vote.\u201cThe honourable judge asked whether it was a fundamental right for women to vote,\u201d Khattak said. \u201cWe said indeed it is a fundamental right and a constitutional right. \u201cThat there has been massive discrimination against women should be clear from the zero participation at the polls.\u201dSiraj-ul-Haq, leader of the Jamaat-e-Islami, an Islamist party that jointly controls the KP government, argued that the women of Lower Dir had merely chosen to respect local traditions by not voting.Jamaat-e-Islami governs KP in coalition with the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), which is led by the former cricketer Imran Khan.One of the PTI\u2019s elected provincial representatives told the Guardian that the party had been complicit in keeping women away from the ballot box in KP, including in this weekend\u2019s poll in Hangu.In the runup to the 2013 general election the PTI in Upper Dir signed a written agreement with other parties barring women from voting and stipulating large fines for anyone breaking the agreement. In the end just one woman\u2019s vote was recorded.Ijaz Khan, a professor at Peshawar University, said political parties were to blame for not challenging social pressures in the most \u201cbackward\u201d areas of the province. \u201cIn order to win the seat they refuse to take a strong stance with their local chapter,\u201d he said. \u201cThe PTI may have women who go to their meetings in Islamabad or Lahore, but in the more traditional areas the party compromises on women\u2019s rights.\u201dThe courts and the provincial government have shown little interest in pursuing the issue of the Lower Dir byelection, but the election commission is investigating. It said it had taken \u201cserious notice\u201d of reports that women would be prevented from voting this weekend.Saima Munir, of the Aurat Foundation, a campaign group, said that if the election commission nullified the result and disqualified the winning candidate it would force dramatic change in the province. Nida Khan, a women\u2019s activist in Hangu, said elders in her community would continue to act with impunity. \u201cThere is no government writ in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,\u201d she said. \u201cWe don\u2019t need any Taliban since our so-called politicians with their extremist mindset are enough to push women into the dark.\u201d ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Gender", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Women barred from voting in parts of Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-05-19T07:39:28Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An unprecedented attempt to improve cooperation between Afghan and Pakistani spies has caused uproar in Afghanistan, where politicians and the media accused the government of selling out to a mortal enemy.Pakistan\u2019s army confirmed the two countries\u2019 security agencies signed a memorandum of understanding last week in which Pakistan will help train and equip Afghan intelligence officers, take part in the interrogation of terror suspects and conduct joint operations.It is an astonishing step for Afghanistan\u2019s National Directorate of Security (NDS), which has long accused its opposite numbers at the Pakistani military\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI) of practically directing the Taliban insurgency.It is also the most dramatic gesture yet by Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president who came to power last year determined to win Islamabad\u2019s help in brokering peace talks with the Taliban by offering concessions that would have been unthinkable under his predecessor, Hamid Karzai.Ghani has upset hawks by sending Afghan cadets for training at Pakistan\u2019s officer academy and diverting scarce military resources to fight Pakistani militants hiding in Afghanistan. Even his November 2014 visit to the office of Pakistan\u2019s army chief in the garrison city of Rawalpindi was seen by some as an affront to national pride.We all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from PakistanThere are signs Ghani\u2019s strategy is paying off, with Taliban and Afghan representatives meeting for informal talks in Qatar this month. Last week, Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, travelled to Kabul to deliver an unprecedented public rebuke to the Taliban, which is engaged in a brutal summer campaign of violence. But with the number of attacks soaring, the diplomatic achievements have not been enough to appease Ghani\u2019s critics. On Monday, a senior member of the Afghan parliament ordered the international relations committee to summon NDS officials for a grilling over the intelligence-sharing deal.The immediate backlash highlights the difficult balance Ghani has to strike between pushing for peace and sustaining public support for his government. \u201cWe all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from Pakistan,\u201d said Haroun Mir, a Kabul analyst. \u201cSuddenly we want to share something we don\u2019t share with very close allies with a government we blame for every single attack.\u201dHighlighting its extreme sensitivity, the Afghan government did not formally announce the intelligence-sharing deal and denied that Pakistan will train and equip Afghan officers. Leaks to the Afghan media said that the NDS chief, Rahmatullah Nabil, was against the move. The memorandum of understanding was signed by a deputy NDS director general after Nabil refused to sign, said Davood Moradian, a Kabul-based analyst and ex-aide to Afghanistan\u2019s former national security adviser.\u201cThis was an initiative proposed by the British but the NDS chief refused to sign it despite enormous pressure,\u201d Moradian said. \u201cIt has not only heavily damaged morale within NDS but further damaged the credibility of Ghani and the national unity government.\u201dFollowing the uproar, Ajmal Obaid Abidy, spokesman for Ghani, attempted to play down its significance, saying other memorandums had been signed with the ISI in the past, but he did not say what areas they covered.Opponents of Ghani\u2019s strategy say Nabil and other top intelligence officials have been sidelined by the president and Hanif Atmar, his national security adviser.One former Karzai-era official said many in Kabul were shocked to learn that Nabil was excluded from at least one key meeting between Ghani and the ISI chief, Rizwan Akhtar in the last year.Pakistan has long-pushed for Nabil to be sacked after it emerged the NDS under his watch attempted to recruit Latif Mehsud, then the second most important commander in the Pakistani Taliban, as an intelligence source.Nabil later said the operation to cultivate Mehsud was a bid \u201cto send a message to Pakistan that if they can do this, we also can do it.\u201d Pakistan insists it is trying to push the Taliban \u2013 a movement it helped to power in the mid-1990s and continued to support after 2001 \u2013 towards a peaceful resolution of the conflict.\u201cUnfortunately there is a group [in the NDS] who do not want us to move forward,\u201d said a Pakistani intelligence official. \u201cThey have benefited from all the money that has come to this region and they are not interested in peace.\u201dAmrullah Saleh, the NDS director general from 2004 to 2010, said he would have been ashamed to sign such an agreement and predicted staunch opposition to it. \u201cI think a lot of us consider this a betrayal and a dishonouring of the sacrifices of our defence forces,\u201d he said. \u201cI never negotiated from a position of weakness. I always asked Pakistan to first stop terror, then ask Afghanistan to cooperate.\u201d", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Afghan backlash over security deal with Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-30T17:39:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten men involved in the attempt to kill Malala Yousafzai have been sentenced to life in prison by a Pakistani court, lawyers involved in the case have said.None of the men was in the team who shot the education activist in the head as she sat in a school minivan in 2012, but a security official said they had been part of a wider group of plotters involved in the planning and execution of the attack.The point-blank shooting of the then 15-year-old at the behest of the Pakistani Taliban caused global outrage and Malala later became the youngest ever winner of the Nobel prize. Related: Malala Yousafzai accepts Nobel peace prize with attack on arms spending One military source said on Thursday that only two of the 10 men had been sentenced by the anti-terrorism court in the city of Mingora, the capital of Malala\u2019s native Swat.However, court officials and lawyers involved in the case insisted all 10 had been given sentences of 25 years.The men\u2019s sentences for attempted murder could be increased if additional charges are brought against them.They were arrested in September last year in a swoop involving multiple security agencies and accused of being part of a group tasked by the Pakistani Taliban leader, Mullah Fazlullah, with killing a series of high-profile people, including Malala.She had infuriated the militants both with her advocacy for female education and her fearless public criticism of them.Malala first began exposing the miseries of life under militant rule in 2009 when, at the age of 12, she began blogging about life under the Taliban in Swat for the BBC Urdu website.A Pakistani offshoot of the Taliban had gradually come to dominate the picturesque region of Swat, implementing its version of Sharia law, which included public floggings and banning girls from going to school.The man believed to have fired the bullet at Malala\u2019s head, a militant called Ataullah Khan, is believed to be hiding in Afghanistan.Although Malala is celebrated around the world as a symbol of the struggle for female education, many in Pakistan are suspicious of the praise heaped on her by the west. She has lived in the UK since being taken there for life-saving treatment at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Birmingham.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Equality", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Gender", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan court jails 10 for Malala attack"},{"date": "2015-04-02T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Identify why children are not in school: The biggest factor is economic constraints, and the fact that kids often need to choose between work and school. In an ideal world, we would be able to demonstrate the link between schools and future earnings. We need to get better at promoting the value of education to parents and children. Madeeha Ansari, writer and independent consultant, London, UK @madeeha_ansariSet universal minimum standards for schools: What makes a primary or a secondary school? Currently, you see a school under a tree with two teachers in one place but a primary school with a huge building and many teachers in another place - the same is the case for curriculum, teachers\u2019 qualifications and examinations. Government, community and private schools should have to adhere to the same basic principles. Dr Mir Afzal Tajik, director, Aga Khan University\u2019s Institute for Educational Development, Karachi, PakistanProvide transport for children and teachers: Lack of safe transportation is a major factor in teacher absenteeism and fatigue. It also affects children\u2019s attendance. School van transport is a valuable perk for our teachers. Amjad Noorani, education activist (Pakistan), The Citizens Foundation, San Francisco, USA @amjadtcfusa @TCFPakMobilise parents: For girls, parents are the biggest impediment to their education. More than half of girls who are out of school lack either parental consent or ability to pay schools fees. We need to advocate more for parents to get involved with community schools \u2013 whether they are on the management committee, or helping with the building, financing or security at their child\u2019s school. Roohi Abdullah, lead and initiator, Girl Rising Pakistan, Washington DC, USA @GirlRisingPakHold politicians to account: Central government and provincial governments have good intentions but no one\u2019s political stakes are invested in delivering that \u201cbetter\u201d set of outcomes, so they leave it to donors and NGOs. Until we can get Pakistani leaders to view a dysfunctional education regime as a political liability, we will keep grasping at non-solutions. Mosharraf Zaidi, campaign director, Alif Ailaan, Islamabad, Pakistan @mosharrafzaidiGet the private sector to offer more scholarships: The government could provide private schools with attractive packages such as cheaper utility bills in return for them making at least 10% of their places available for free to poor students. This could be especially effective in areas government schools have failed to reach. Zobaida Jalal, former minister of education, Balochistan, Pakistan @ZobaidaJalalScrap teaching in English:  We focus on English too much which is why we\u2019ve ended up with so much rote learning. Many teachers are trying to teach in a language they\u2019re not even fully competent in. Meanwhile, children who are confident in their own language are condemned as dumb if they can\u2019t pick up English. Zubeida Mustafa, columnist for Dawn, Karachi, Pakistan @zubeidamustafa @dawn_comListen to teachers: What do they need to be more effective? What needs to change for them to increase motivation and spend more time in the classroom? This feedback is not adequately collected or used at the moment. Adam Hall, project manager (education),  Adam Smith International, London, UKOffer stipends to girls: It\u2019s a slightly controversial method but in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa we found that providing stipends to girls at risk increased girls\u2019 attendance. Of course setting the amount for a stipend is very tricky to make sure it is not too expensive to do at scale, but we\u2019ve delivered 400,000 so far. Adam HallMake provisions for children with special needs: I think we always neglect the children with special needs and their education in our society. As minister for special education, I came out with a national plan of action for people with disabilities and the most vital element was inclusive education. Unfortunately, I haven\u2019t seen it widely implemented yet. Zobaida JalalCollect a wider variety of data: Most government data is focused on school building contracts and teachers\u2019 salaries, rather than on what the children are learning. How about running community focus groups routinely and having more nimble programmes that allow for mid-course correction? Noorulain Masood, CEO, Teach For Pakistan, Karachi, Pakistan @Noor_MasoodIncentivise teachers to learn as they earn: Teachers should be encouraged with salary incentives to take college qualifications and get a bachelors degree. Additionally, annual professional development workshops and in-service training should be provided. Higher competency should be rewarded. Amjad NooraniTake sanitation seriously: At our schools we have cleaning staff to maintain toilets during school hours. They also help with hygiene of young kids before they go to class as many children are from homes that do not have running water. Toilets, sanitation and privacy are not a trivial requirement. Amjad NooraniAdapt teaching techniques for volatile situations: Where schools are frequently closed due to violence, one possibility is home schooling. For example, in Ebola-affected Sierra Leone we moved to delivering educational radio programmes. Tricia Young, director, Child to Child, London, UK @ChildtoChildRead the full Q&A here.Is there anything that we\u2019ve left out? Leave your thoughts in the comments below.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Impact and effectiveness", "Global development professionals network", "Education", "Pakistan", "World news", "Gender", "The gender gap", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "14 routes to better education in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-05-29T06:16:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In some of the most socially conservative regions of Pakistan this weekend\u2019s local government elections will be men-only affairs.Local politicians and elders say parties contesting elections for district and village council seats in Hangu and parts of Malakand, districts of the north-western province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), have struck deals barring women from voting.There are fears of similar arrangements across KP, a province bordering Afghanistan where many Pashtun communities observe purdah traditions so strict that many female candidates do not publish photographs on election posters.The cultural difficulties are often compounded by dire security in areas where the Taliban and other militant groups are active.In a parliamentary byelection in Lower Dir this month, none of the eligible 50,000 women in the constituency turned out to vote. One report said mosques broadcast warnings to women, and polling stations were guarded by \u201cbaton-wielding men\u201d who blocked the few women who did try to vote.On Wednesday the high court in Peshawar threw out a petition lodged by 12 women from Lower Dir who demanded the election be re-run. Shahab Khattak, the women\u2019s lawyer, said the case was dismissed after 15 minutes, during which the judge seemed unsure whether women really were entitled to vote.\u201cThe honourable judge asked whether it was a fundamental right for women to vote,\u201d Khattak said. \u201cWe said indeed it is a fundamental right and a constitutional right. \u201cThat there has been massive discrimination against women should be clear from the zero participation at the polls.\u201dSiraj-ul-Haq, leader of the Jamaat-e-Islami, an Islamist party that jointly controls the KP government, argued that the women of Lower Dir had merely chosen to respect local traditions by not voting.Jamaat-e-Islami governs KP in coalition with the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), which is led by the former cricketer Imran Khan.One of the PTI\u2019s elected provincial representatives told the Guardian that the party had been complicit in keeping women away from the ballot box in KP, including in this weekend\u2019s poll in Hangu.In the runup to the 2013 general election the PTI in Upper Dir signed a written agreement with other parties barring women from voting and stipulating large fines for anyone breaking the agreement. In the end just one woman\u2019s vote was recorded.Ijaz Khan, a professor at Peshawar University, said political parties were to blame for not challenging social pressures in the most \u201cbackward\u201d areas of the province. \u201cIn order to win the seat they refuse to take a strong stance with their local chapter,\u201d he said. \u201cThe PTI may have women who go to their meetings in Islamabad or Lahore, but in the more traditional areas the party compromises on women\u2019s rights.\u201dThe courts and the provincial government have shown little interest in pursuing the issue of the Lower Dir byelection, but the election commission is investigating. It said it had taken \u201cserious notice\u201d of reports that women would be prevented from voting this weekend.Saima Munir, of the Aurat Foundation, a campaign group, said that if the election commission nullified the result and disqualified the winning candidate it would force dramatic change in the province. Nida Khan, a women\u2019s activist in Hangu, said elders in her community would continue to act with impunity. \u201cThere is no government writ in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,\u201d she said. \u201cWe don\u2019t need any Taliban since our so-called politicians with their extremist mindset are enough to push women into the dark.\u201d ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Gender", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Women barred from voting in parts of Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-16T10:27:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In the dense alleyways of Ittehad town on the outskirts of Karachi, the fastest growing city in Pakistan, Farhina Tousif is waging a losing battle with a mother over vaccinating her children against polio.\u201cDo you have any children in this household under the age of five?\u201d Tousif calls through a curtain separating the male and female quarters of a conservative Pashtun family. \u201cNo,\u201d comes the answer via a nine-year-old boy, who is translating between the national language, Urdu, and the woman\u2019s native Pashtu.\u201cSister, I know you have children because I can see your son there. For God\u2019s sake, don\u2019t be the enemy of your child \u2013 let me vaccinate him,\u201d says Tousif. The answer from behind the curtain is still a firm no.Tousif knows when she has lost, and moves swiftly on to the next house. But the unvaccinated child or children left behind are not the only ones at risk in a complicated and patchy effort to control the number of wild poliovirus cases found in Pakistan, which shot up from 58 in 2012 to 306 last year. Since the Taliban issued a ban on vaccinations, and compared female health workers to prostitutes for working outside the home, more than 80 vaccinators and the armed guards assigned to protect them have been gunned down.Tousif and others like her on the frontline of a battle to contain the disease have found their efforts entangled with women\u2019s right to work, claims of US espionage, a barely adequate healthcare system and a deep distrust of authority. The challenges sometimes feel insurmountable, Tousif says.When one of us dies, the number of vaccinators falls for months. But we need the money, so they usually come back\u201cMy colleagues risk their lives trying to help people, and get paid 500 rupees [\u00a33.30] a day. I have to encourage them, like I do the mothers I see, to go out and work each time. It\u2019s not the money, it\u2019s the fact they don\u2019t feel like we\u2019re winning the war on polio. And when one of us dies, the number of vaccinators falls for months. But we need the money, so they usually come back.\u201dThe Pakistani branch of the Taliban, the TTP, has seized on evidence that the vaccination campaign was used as cover by the CIA to gather intelligence. The US government said last year that the practice had stopped and the CIA director had instructed the agency \u201cto make no operational use of vaccination programmes, which include vaccination workers\u201d.But rumours spread fast in Pakistan and prove near-impossible to debunk once they have taken hold. Communities such as the Pushtuns now associate polio vaccinators with CIA spies and US drones. Added to this are the problems of keeping track of the million or so people internally displaced from places such as Waziristan because of the US drone-strike campaign, an under-resourced healthcare system and a lacklustre campaign against what the World Health Organisation has called a \u201cpublic health emergency of international concern\u201d.It is easy to see why Tousif is frustrated. In the face of lethal risks, she attempts to charm, coax or even force mothers to give the two drops of polio vaccine to their children. She has heard all the excuses: the medicine doesn\u2019t work, it\u2019s un-Islamic, you work for the Americans, we don\u2019t trust you.In Ittehad, she and her team of female health workers have half a day to vaccinate 20,000 children in a neighbourhood in which poor sanitation and overcrowding provide fertile ground for the virus. The previous week, a bomb was found attached to a rickshaw close to a hotel where some health workers were staying.Even under these harsh conditions, for Tousif and her colleagues it is either this or no work at all. Polio vaccination is one of a handful of jobs seen as acceptable for Muslim women. Tousif\u2019s earnings help with the rent on the one-bedroom flat she shares with her mechanic husband and three children, and with school fees.Her commitment to ending polio in Pakistan, one of handful of countries in the world where wild poliovirus can be found, is unwavering. But so is the opposition to the vaccination campaign.It is hard to convince Pakistani mothers to give their children the polio vaccine if root causes of the disease\u2019s spread, such as dirty water and open sewers, remain so badly managed. \u201cAll the millions they spend coming here every week banging on our doors and giving the drops is a waste and doesn\u2019t work,\u201d said one mother, echoing the views of others. \u201cMy kids play outside where there are open sewers and dirt water. All this money \u2013 why can\u2019t they clean the sewers with it? Why don\u2019t they help me send my children to school? Why doesn\u2019t the government spend the money on that?\u201dIn a report last October, the Independent Monitoring Board for polio described the Pakistani vaccination campaign as a \u201cdisaster\u201d \u2013 although money and resources since pumped into the campaign by the UN children\u2019s agency, Unicef, and the WHO have led to a fall in the numbers infected.Tousif is undeterred. \u201cOne day, when Pakistan is finally polio free, I can tell my kids that I was a part of that,\u201d she says.Nelufar Hedayat\u2019s Unreported World: Vaccination Wars will be shown on Channel 4 at 7.30pm on Friday @N_Hedayat", "tags": ["Polio", "Health", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "Children", "World Health Organisation", "World news"], "title": "Suspicion slows dangerous work to eradicate polio in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-05-19T07:39:28Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An unprecedented attempt to improve cooperation between Afghan and Pakistani spies has caused uproar in Afghanistan, where politicians and the media accused the government of selling out to a mortal enemy.Pakistan\u2019s army confirmed the two countries\u2019 security agencies signed a memorandum of understanding last week in which Pakistan will help train and equip Afghan intelligence officers, take part in the interrogation of terror suspects and conduct joint operations.It is an astonishing step for Afghanistan\u2019s National Directorate of Security (NDS), which has long accused its opposite numbers at the Pakistani military\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI) of practically directing the Taliban insurgency.It is also the most dramatic gesture yet by Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president who came to power last year determined to win Islamabad\u2019s help in brokering peace talks with the Taliban by offering concessions that would have been unthinkable under his predecessor, Hamid Karzai.Ghani has upset hawks by sending Afghan cadets for training at Pakistan\u2019s officer academy and diverting scarce military resources to fight Pakistani militants hiding in Afghanistan. Even his November 2014 visit to the office of Pakistan\u2019s army chief in the garrison city of Rawalpindi was seen by some as an affront to national pride.We all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from PakistanThere are signs Ghani\u2019s strategy is paying off, with Taliban and Afghan representatives meeting for informal talks in Qatar this month. Last week, Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, travelled to Kabul to deliver an unprecedented public rebuke to the Taliban, which is engaged in a brutal summer campaign of violence. But with the number of attacks soaring, the diplomatic achievements have not been enough to appease Ghani\u2019s critics. On Monday, a senior member of the Afghan parliament ordered the international relations committee to summon NDS officials for a grilling over the intelligence-sharing deal.The immediate backlash highlights the difficult balance Ghani has to strike between pushing for peace and sustaining public support for his government. \u201cWe all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from Pakistan,\u201d said Haroun Mir, a Kabul analyst. \u201cSuddenly we want to share something we don\u2019t share with very close allies with a government we blame for every single attack.\u201dHighlighting its extreme sensitivity, the Afghan government did not formally announce the intelligence-sharing deal and denied that Pakistan will train and equip Afghan officers. Leaks to the Afghan media said that the NDS chief, Rahmatullah Nabil, was against the move. The memorandum of understanding was signed by a deputy NDS director general after Nabil refused to sign, said Davood Moradian, a Kabul-based analyst and ex-aide to Afghanistan\u2019s former national security adviser.\u201cThis was an initiative proposed by the British but the NDS chief refused to sign it despite enormous pressure,\u201d Moradian said. \u201cIt has not only heavily damaged morale within NDS but further damaged the credibility of Ghani and the national unity government.\u201dFollowing the uproar, Ajmal Obaid Abidy, spokesman for Ghani, attempted to play down its significance, saying other memorandums had been signed with the ISI in the past, but he did not say what areas they covered.Opponents of Ghani\u2019s strategy say Nabil and other top intelligence officials have been sidelined by the president and Hanif Atmar, his national security adviser.One former Karzai-era official said many in Kabul were shocked to learn that Nabil was excluded from at least one key meeting between Ghani and the ISI chief, Rizwan Akhtar in the last year.Pakistan has long-pushed for Nabil to be sacked after it emerged the NDS under his watch attempted to recruit Latif Mehsud, then the second most important commander in the Pakistani Taliban, as an intelligence source.Nabil later said the operation to cultivate Mehsud was a bid \u201cto send a message to Pakistan that if they can do this, we also can do it.\u201d Pakistan insists it is trying to push the Taliban \u2013 a movement it helped to power in the mid-1990s and continued to support after 2001 \u2013 towards a peaceful resolution of the conflict.\u201cUnfortunately there is a group [in the NDS] who do not want us to move forward,\u201d said a Pakistani intelligence official. \u201cThey have benefited from all the money that has come to this region and they are not interested in peace.\u201dAmrullah Saleh, the NDS director general from 2004 to 2010, said he would have been ashamed to sign such an agreement and predicted staunch opposition to it. \u201cI think a lot of us consider this a betrayal and a dishonouring of the sacrifices of our defence forces,\u201d he said. \u201cI never negotiated from a position of weakness. I always asked Pakistan to first stop terror, then ask Afghanistan to cooperate.\u201d", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Afghan backlash over security deal with Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-30T17:39:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten men involved in the attempt to kill Malala Yousafzai have been sentenced to life in prison by a Pakistani court, lawyers involved in the case have said.None of the men was in the team who shot the education activist in the head as she sat in a school minivan in 2012, but a security official said they had been part of a wider group of plotters involved in the planning and execution of the attack.The point-blank shooting of the then 15-year-old at the behest of the Pakistani Taliban caused global outrage and Malala later became the youngest ever winner of the Nobel prize. Related: Malala Yousafzai accepts Nobel peace prize with attack on arms spending One military source said on Thursday that only two of the 10 men had been sentenced by the anti-terrorism court in the city of Mingora, the capital of Malala\u2019s native Swat.However, court officials and lawyers involved in the case insisted all 10 had been given sentences of 25 years.The men\u2019s sentences for attempted murder could be increased if additional charges are brought against them.They were arrested in September last year in a swoop involving multiple security agencies and accused of being part of a group tasked by the Pakistani Taliban leader, Mullah Fazlullah, with killing a series of high-profile people, including Malala.She had infuriated the militants both with her advocacy for female education and her fearless public criticism of them.Malala first began exposing the miseries of life under militant rule in 2009 when, at the age of 12, she began blogging about life under the Taliban in Swat for the BBC Urdu website.A Pakistani offshoot of the Taliban had gradually come to dominate the picturesque region of Swat, implementing its version of Sharia law, which included public floggings and banning girls from going to school.The man believed to have fired the bullet at Malala\u2019s head, a militant called Ataullah Khan, is believed to be hiding in Afghanistan.Although Malala is celebrated around the world as a symbol of the struggle for female education, many in Pakistan are suspicious of the praise heaped on her by the west. She has lived in the UK since being taken there for life-saving treatment at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Birmingham.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Equality", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Gender", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan court jails 10 for Malala attack"},{"date": "2015-04-02T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Identify why children are not in school: The biggest factor is economic constraints, and the fact that kids often need to choose between work and school. In an ideal world, we would be able to demonstrate the link between schools and future earnings. We need to get better at promoting the value of education to parents and children. Madeeha Ansari, writer and independent consultant, London, UK @madeeha_ansariSet universal minimum standards for schools: What makes a primary or a secondary school? Currently, you see a school under a tree with two teachers in one place but a primary school with a huge building and many teachers in another place - the same is the case for curriculum, teachers\u2019 qualifications and examinations. Government, community and private schools should have to adhere to the same basic principles. Dr Mir Afzal Tajik, director, Aga Khan University\u2019s Institute for Educational Development, Karachi, PakistanProvide transport for children and teachers: Lack of safe transportation is a major factor in teacher absenteeism and fatigue. It also affects children\u2019s attendance. School van transport is a valuable perk for our teachers. Amjad Noorani, education activist (Pakistan), The Citizens Foundation, San Francisco, USA @amjadtcfusa @TCFPakMobilise parents: For girls, parents are the biggest impediment to their education. More than half of girls who are out of school lack either parental consent or ability to pay schools fees. We need to advocate more for parents to get involved with community schools \u2013 whether they are on the management committee, or helping with the building, financing or security at their child\u2019s school. Roohi Abdullah, lead and initiator, Girl Rising Pakistan, Washington DC, USA @GirlRisingPakHold politicians to account: Central government and provincial governments have good intentions but no one\u2019s political stakes are invested in delivering that \u201cbetter\u201d set of outcomes, so they leave it to donors and NGOs. Until we can get Pakistani leaders to view a dysfunctional education regime as a political liability, we will keep grasping at non-solutions. Mosharraf Zaidi, campaign director, Alif Ailaan, Islamabad, Pakistan @mosharrafzaidiGet the private sector to offer more scholarships: The government could provide private schools with attractive packages such as cheaper utility bills in return for them making at least 10% of their places available for free to poor students. This could be especially effective in areas government schools have failed to reach. Zobaida Jalal, former minister of education, Balochistan, Pakistan @ZobaidaJalalScrap teaching in English:  We focus on English too much which is why we\u2019ve ended up with so much rote learning. Many teachers are trying to teach in a language they\u2019re not even fully competent in. Meanwhile, children who are confident in their own language are condemned as dumb if they can\u2019t pick up English. Zubeida Mustafa, columnist for Dawn, Karachi, Pakistan @zubeidamustafa @dawn_comListen to teachers: What do they need to be more effective? What needs to change for them to increase motivation and spend more time in the classroom? This feedback is not adequately collected or used at the moment. Adam Hall, project manager (education),  Adam Smith International, London, UKOffer stipends to girls: It\u2019s a slightly controversial method but in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa we found that providing stipends to girls at risk increased girls\u2019 attendance. Of course setting the amount for a stipend is very tricky to make sure it is not too expensive to do at scale, but we\u2019ve delivered 400,000 so far. Adam HallMake provisions for children with special needs: I think we always neglect the children with special needs and their education in our society. As minister for special education, I came out with a national plan of action for people with disabilities and the most vital element was inclusive education. Unfortunately, I haven\u2019t seen it widely implemented yet. Zobaida JalalCollect a wider variety of data: Most government data is focused on school building contracts and teachers\u2019 salaries, rather than on what the children are learning. How about running community focus groups routinely and having more nimble programmes that allow for mid-course correction? Noorulain Masood, CEO, Teach For Pakistan, Karachi, Pakistan @Noor_MasoodIncentivise teachers to learn as they earn: Teachers should be encouraged with salary incentives to take college qualifications and get a bachelors degree. Additionally, annual professional development workshops and in-service training should be provided. Higher competency should be rewarded. Amjad NooraniTake sanitation seriously: At our schools we have cleaning staff to maintain toilets during school hours. They also help with hygiene of young kids before they go to class as many children are from homes that do not have running water. Toilets, sanitation and privacy are not a trivial requirement. Amjad NooraniAdapt teaching techniques for volatile situations: Where schools are frequently closed due to violence, one possibility is home schooling. For example, in Ebola-affected Sierra Leone we moved to delivering educational radio programmes. Tricia Young, director, Child to Child, London, UK @ChildtoChildRead the full Q&A here.Is there anything that we\u2019ve left out? Leave your thoughts in the comments below.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Impact and effectiveness", "Global development professionals network", "Education", "Pakistan", "World news", "Gender", "The gender gap", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "14 routes to better education in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-05-29T06:16:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In some of the most socially conservative regions of Pakistan this weekend\u2019s local government elections will be men-only affairs.Local politicians and elders say parties contesting elections for district and village council seats in Hangu and parts of Malakand, districts of the north-western province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), have struck deals barring women from voting.There are fears of similar arrangements across KP, a province bordering Afghanistan where many Pashtun communities observe purdah traditions so strict that many female candidates do not publish photographs on election posters.The cultural difficulties are often compounded by dire security in areas where the Taliban and other militant groups are active.In a parliamentary byelection in Lower Dir this month, none of the eligible 50,000 women in the constituency turned out to vote. One report said mosques broadcast warnings to women, and polling stations were guarded by \u201cbaton-wielding men\u201d who blocked the few women who did try to vote.On Wednesday the high court in Peshawar threw out a petition lodged by 12 women from Lower Dir who demanded the election be re-run. Shahab Khattak, the women\u2019s lawyer, said the case was dismissed after 15 minutes, during which the judge seemed unsure whether women really were entitled to vote.\u201cThe honourable judge asked whether it was a fundamental right for women to vote,\u201d Khattak said. \u201cWe said indeed it is a fundamental right and a constitutional right. \u201cThat there has been massive discrimination against women should be clear from the zero participation at the polls.\u201dSiraj-ul-Haq, leader of the Jamaat-e-Islami, an Islamist party that jointly controls the KP government, argued that the women of Lower Dir had merely chosen to respect local traditions by not voting.Jamaat-e-Islami governs KP in coalition with the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), which is led by the former cricketer Imran Khan.One of the PTI\u2019s elected provincial representatives told the Guardian that the party had been complicit in keeping women away from the ballot box in KP, including in this weekend\u2019s poll in Hangu.In the runup to the 2013 general election the PTI in Upper Dir signed a written agreement with other parties barring women from voting and stipulating large fines for anyone breaking the agreement. In the end just one woman\u2019s vote was recorded.Ijaz Khan, a professor at Peshawar University, said political parties were to blame for not challenging social pressures in the most \u201cbackward\u201d areas of the province. \u201cIn order to win the seat they refuse to take a strong stance with their local chapter,\u201d he said. \u201cThe PTI may have women who go to their meetings in Islamabad or Lahore, but in the more traditional areas the party compromises on women\u2019s rights.\u201dThe courts and the provincial government have shown little interest in pursuing the issue of the Lower Dir byelection, but the election commission is investigating. It said it had taken \u201cserious notice\u201d of reports that women would be prevented from voting this weekend.Saima Munir, of the Aurat Foundation, a campaign group, said that if the election commission nullified the result and disqualified the winning candidate it would force dramatic change in the province. Nida Khan, a women\u2019s activist in Hangu, said elders in her community would continue to act with impunity. \u201cThere is no government writ in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,\u201d she said. \u201cWe don\u2019t need any Taliban since our so-called politicians with their extremist mindset are enough to push women into the dark.\u201d ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Gender", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Women barred from voting in parts of Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-16T10:27:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In the dense alleyways of Ittehad town on the outskirts of Karachi, the fastest growing city in Pakistan, Farhina Tousif is waging a losing battle with a mother over vaccinating her children against polio.\u201cDo you have any children in this household under the age of five?\u201d Tousif calls through a curtain separating the male and female quarters of a conservative Pashtun family. \u201cNo,\u201d comes the answer via a nine-year-old boy, who is translating between the national language, Urdu, and the woman\u2019s native Pashtu.\u201cSister, I know you have children because I can see your son there. For God\u2019s sake, don\u2019t be the enemy of your child \u2013 let me vaccinate him,\u201d says Tousif. The answer from behind the curtain is still a firm no.Tousif knows when she has lost, and moves swiftly on to the next house. But the unvaccinated child or children left behind are not the only ones at risk in a complicated and patchy effort to control the number of wild poliovirus cases found in Pakistan, which shot up from 58 in 2012 to 306 last year. Since the Taliban issued a ban on vaccinations, and compared female health workers to prostitutes for working outside the home, more than 80 vaccinators and the armed guards assigned to protect them have been gunned down.Tousif and others like her on the frontline of a battle to contain the disease have found their efforts entangled with women\u2019s right to work, claims of US espionage, a barely adequate healthcare system and a deep distrust of authority. The challenges sometimes feel insurmountable, Tousif says.When one of us dies, the number of vaccinators falls for months. But we need the money, so they usually come back\u201cMy colleagues risk their lives trying to help people, and get paid 500 rupees [\u00a33.30] a day. I have to encourage them, like I do the mothers I see, to go out and work each time. It\u2019s not the money, it\u2019s the fact they don\u2019t feel like we\u2019re winning the war on polio. And when one of us dies, the number of vaccinators falls for months. But we need the money, so they usually come back.\u201dThe Pakistani branch of the Taliban, the TTP, has seized on evidence that the vaccination campaign was used as cover by the CIA to gather intelligence. The US government said last year that the practice had stopped and the CIA director had instructed the agency \u201cto make no operational use of vaccination programmes, which include vaccination workers\u201d.But rumours spread fast in Pakistan and prove near-impossible to debunk once they have taken hold. Communities such as the Pushtuns now associate polio vaccinators with CIA spies and US drones. Added to this are the problems of keeping track of the million or so people internally displaced from places such as Waziristan because of the US drone-strike campaign, an under-resourced healthcare system and a lacklustre campaign against what the World Health Organisation has called a \u201cpublic health emergency of international concern\u201d.It is easy to see why Tousif is frustrated. In the face of lethal risks, she attempts to charm, coax or even force mothers to give the two drops of polio vaccine to their children. She has heard all the excuses: the medicine doesn\u2019t work, it\u2019s un-Islamic, you work for the Americans, we don\u2019t trust you.In Ittehad, she and her team of female health workers have half a day to vaccinate 20,000 children in a neighbourhood in which poor sanitation and overcrowding provide fertile ground for the virus. The previous week, a bomb was found attached to a rickshaw close to a hotel where some health workers were staying.Even under these harsh conditions, for Tousif and her colleagues it is either this or no work at all. Polio vaccination is one of a handful of jobs seen as acceptable for Muslim women. Tousif\u2019s earnings help with the rent on the one-bedroom flat she shares with her mechanic husband and three children, and with school fees.Her commitment to ending polio in Pakistan, one of handful of countries in the world where wild poliovirus can be found, is unwavering. But so is the opposition to the vaccination campaign.It is hard to convince Pakistani mothers to give their children the polio vaccine if root causes of the disease\u2019s spread, such as dirty water and open sewers, remain so badly managed. \u201cAll the millions they spend coming here every week banging on our doors and giving the drops is a waste and doesn\u2019t work,\u201d said one mother, echoing the views of others. \u201cMy kids play outside where there are open sewers and dirt water. All this money \u2013 why can\u2019t they clean the sewers with it? Why don\u2019t they help me send my children to school? Why doesn\u2019t the government spend the money on that?\u201dIn a report last October, the Independent Monitoring Board for polio described the Pakistani vaccination campaign as a \u201cdisaster\u201d \u2013 although money and resources since pumped into the campaign by the UN children\u2019s agency, Unicef, and the WHO have led to a fall in the numbers infected.Tousif is undeterred. \u201cOne day, when Pakistan is finally polio free, I can tell my kids that I was a part of that,\u201d she says.Nelufar Hedayat\u2019s Unreported World: Vaccination Wars will be shown on Channel 4 at 7.30pm on Friday @N_Hedayat", "tags": ["Polio", "Health", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "Children", "World Health Organisation", "World news"], "title": "Suspicion slows dangerous work to eradicate polio in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-10T11:17:35Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The man accused of masterminding the 2008 terror attack on Mumbai has walked free from a Pakistani jail after detention orders against him were dropped.The decision of Lahore\u2019s high court to release Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the alleged military chief of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) group, was described as an \u201cinsult to the victims\u201d of the attack, in which 166 people were killed.Delhi is frustrated by Pakistan\u2019s seven-year failure to successfully prosecute any of those allegedly involved in sending a boatload of young suicide attackers to India\u2019s financial capital.Rizwan Abbasi, the lawyer acting for Lakhvi, confirmed his client had been released from Adiala jail in Rawalpindi following the end of his \u201cillegal detention\u201d.\u201cJustice Anwar ul-Haq in his orders declared the detention unjustified and ordered an immediate release of Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi from the jail,\u201d he said.Pakistan\u2019s government had battled to keep Lakhvi behind bars since he was granted bail by an anti-terrorism court in Islamabad on 18 December last year, two days after a Taliban massacre of schoolchildren in Peshawar prompted the government to make grand promises to crack down on terrorist groups.The state, however, was only able to use \u201cmaintenance of public order\u201d legislation to hold him, because prosecutors have failed to marshal a case against him.A spokesman for India\u2019s interior ministry, who asked not to be named, criticised Lakhvi\u2019s release, calling the court\u2019s decision \u201can insult to the victims of the 26/11 Mumbai attack\u201d.\u201cThe global community should take serious note of Pakistan\u2019s double-speak on terrorism,\u201d the spokesman added.Abbasi said he would fight any other government attempts to keep Lakhvi locked up.\u201c[For the] last four months, we have fought for justice against the government decision to keep my client in illegal detention,\u201d he said. \u201cIf this is something the government again wishes to do, we are ready to knock the door of the courts once again.\u201d India\u2019s interior minister, Rajnath Singh, said: \u201cIndia wants talks with Pakistan, but the present development is unfortunate and very disappointing.\u201dThe two countries have fought three major wars since gaining their independence from Britain in 1947.Relations looked set to improve last year after the newly elected Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, invited his counterpart to his inauguration, but they deteriorated rapidly amid fierce exchanges of artillery fire and clashes along the disputed border between the two south Asian states.Earlier this week, in anticipation of the release, an Indian government spokesman said that \u201cknown terrorists not being effectively prosecuted constitutes a real security threat for India and the world\u201d.Lakhvi was originally arrested in December 2008 following the gunmen\u2019s three-day rampage in Mumbai\u2019s main railway station, five-star hotels and a cafe.Lakhvi, known as \u201cchacha Zaki\u201d within LeT, is accused of personally directing the 10 young attackers by phone from a safe house in Karachi.Despite phone-tap and witness evidence, including the confession of the sole surviving attacker, critics say a prosecution is unthinkable given the close relationship Pakistan\u2019s military has had with LeT, a jihadi group established in the early 1990s as an off-the-books force to help Pakistan prise the contested region of Kashmir away from India.Any prosecution, let alone extradition to India, could risk revealing any ongoing ties between Pakistan\u2019s intelligence establishment and LeT.Lakhvi is said to have had a relatively comfortable stay behind bars, enjoying perks including a television and access to a mobile phone, as well as being able to father a child.Sourav Mishra, a 35-year-old Mumbai resident who was injured in the attacks of 2008, said he hoped to see the perpetrators prosecuted and jailed in Pakistan, but understood that the neighbouring state \u201cwas in a lot of trouble right now and that it would be very difficult for them to nail someone for a crime that happened in India\u201d.\u201cI was very pained because on that day my own country failed to protect its citizens. There were attacks before and after [November 2008]. I think now perhaps we are better protected, but Mumbai has faced so many attacks you always feel vulnerable,\u201d said Mishra, who was in the famous Leopold\u2019s Cafe when it was attacked by the gunmen.India has repeatedly submitted its own evidence to Pakistani authorities. Rehman featured in the testimony of David Headley, a US national of Pakistani origin who joined LeT and carried out reconnaissance missions in Mumbai for the 26/11 attacks. Headley cooperated with US authorities after his arrest in 2009 and was eventually jailed in the US for 35 years. Headley was interviewed by Indian investigators while in custody and spoke at length about his relationship with Pakistani intelligence services. Rehman was also mentioned repeatedly in the testimony of Ajmal Kasab, the sole surviving gunman, who was convicted of terrorist charges and hanged in India in 2012. Kasab described Rehman handpicking the group of attackers and overseeing their training. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "Mumbai terror attacks", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Suspected mastermind of Mumbai terror attack released from Pakistan jail"},{"date": "2015-05-19T07:39:28Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An unprecedented attempt to improve cooperation between Afghan and Pakistani spies has caused uproar in Afghanistan, where politicians and the media accused the government of selling out to a mortal enemy.Pakistan\u2019s army confirmed the two countries\u2019 security agencies signed a memorandum of understanding last week in which Pakistan will help train and equip Afghan intelligence officers, take part in the interrogation of terror suspects and conduct joint operations.It is an astonishing step for Afghanistan\u2019s National Directorate of Security (NDS), which has long accused its opposite numbers at the Pakistani military\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI) of practically directing the Taliban insurgency.It is also the most dramatic gesture yet by Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president who came to power last year determined to win Islamabad\u2019s help in brokering peace talks with the Taliban by offering concessions that would have been unthinkable under his predecessor, Hamid Karzai.Ghani has upset hawks by sending Afghan cadets for training at Pakistan\u2019s officer academy and diverting scarce military resources to fight Pakistani militants hiding in Afghanistan. Even his November 2014 visit to the office of Pakistan\u2019s army chief in the garrison city of Rawalpindi was seen by some as an affront to national pride.We all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from PakistanThere are signs Ghani\u2019s strategy is paying off, with Taliban and Afghan representatives meeting for informal talks in Qatar this month. Last week, Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, travelled to Kabul to deliver an unprecedented public rebuke to the Taliban, which is engaged in a brutal summer campaign of violence. But with the number of attacks soaring, the diplomatic achievements have not been enough to appease Ghani\u2019s critics. On Monday, a senior member of the Afghan parliament ordered the international relations committee to summon NDS officials for a grilling over the intelligence-sharing deal.The immediate backlash highlights the difficult balance Ghani has to strike between pushing for peace and sustaining public support for his government. \u201cWe all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from Pakistan,\u201d said Haroun Mir, a Kabul analyst. \u201cSuddenly we want to share something we don\u2019t share with very close allies with a government we blame for every single attack.\u201dHighlighting its extreme sensitivity, the Afghan government did not formally announce the intelligence-sharing deal and denied that Pakistan will train and equip Afghan officers. Leaks to the Afghan media said that the NDS chief, Rahmatullah Nabil, was against the move. The memorandum of understanding was signed by a deputy NDS director general after Nabil refused to sign, said Davood Moradian, a Kabul-based analyst and ex-aide to Afghanistan\u2019s former national security adviser.\u201cThis was an initiative proposed by the British but the NDS chief refused to sign it despite enormous pressure,\u201d Moradian said. \u201cIt has not only heavily damaged morale within NDS but further damaged the credibility of Ghani and the national unity government.\u201dFollowing the uproar, Ajmal Obaid Abidy, spokesman for Ghani, attempted to play down its significance, saying other memorandums had been signed with the ISI in the past, but he did not say what areas they covered.Opponents of Ghani\u2019s strategy say Nabil and other top intelligence officials have been sidelined by the president and Hanif Atmar, his national security adviser.One former Karzai-era official said many in Kabul were shocked to learn that Nabil was excluded from at least one key meeting between Ghani and the ISI chief, Rizwan Akhtar in the last year.Pakistan has long-pushed for Nabil to be sacked after it emerged the NDS under his watch attempted to recruit Latif Mehsud, then the second most important commander in the Pakistani Taliban, as an intelligence source.Nabil later said the operation to cultivate Mehsud was a bid \u201cto send a message to Pakistan that if they can do this, we also can do it.\u201d Pakistan insists it is trying to push the Taliban \u2013 a movement it helped to power in the mid-1990s and continued to support after 2001 \u2013 towards a peaceful resolution of the conflict.\u201cUnfortunately there is a group [in the NDS] who do not want us to move forward,\u201d said a Pakistani intelligence official. \u201cThey have benefited from all the money that has come to this region and they are not interested in peace.\u201dAmrullah Saleh, the NDS director general from 2004 to 2010, said he would have been ashamed to sign such an agreement and predicted staunch opposition to it. \u201cI think a lot of us consider this a betrayal and a dishonouring of the sacrifices of our defence forces,\u201d he said. \u201cI never negotiated from a position of weakness. I always asked Pakistan to first stop terror, then ask Afghanistan to cooperate.\u201d", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Afghan backlash over security deal with Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-30T17:39:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten men involved in the attempt to kill Malala Yousafzai have been sentenced to life in prison by a Pakistani court, lawyers involved in the case have said.None of the men was in the team who shot the education activist in the head as she sat in a school minivan in 2012, but a security official said they had been part of a wider group of plotters involved in the planning and execution of the attack.The point-blank shooting of the then 15-year-old at the behest of the Pakistani Taliban caused global outrage and Malala later became the youngest ever winner of the Nobel prize. Related: Malala Yousafzai accepts Nobel peace prize with attack on arms spending One military source said on Thursday that only two of the 10 men had been sentenced by the anti-terrorism court in the city of Mingora, the capital of Malala\u2019s native Swat.However, court officials and lawyers involved in the case insisted all 10 had been given sentences of 25 years.The men\u2019s sentences for attempted murder could be increased if additional charges are brought against them.They were arrested in September last year in a swoop involving multiple security agencies and accused of being part of a group tasked by the Pakistani Taliban leader, Mullah Fazlullah, with killing a series of high-profile people, including Malala.She had infuriated the militants both with her advocacy for female education and her fearless public criticism of them.Malala first began exposing the miseries of life under militant rule in 2009 when, at the age of 12, she began blogging about life under the Taliban in Swat for the BBC Urdu website.A Pakistani offshoot of the Taliban had gradually come to dominate the picturesque region of Swat, implementing its version of Sharia law, which included public floggings and banning girls from going to school.The man believed to have fired the bullet at Malala\u2019s head, a militant called Ataullah Khan, is believed to be hiding in Afghanistan.Although Malala is celebrated around the world as a symbol of the struggle for female education, many in Pakistan are suspicious of the praise heaped on her by the west. She has lived in the UK since being taken there for life-saving treatment at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Birmingham.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Equality", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Gender", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan court jails 10 for Malala attack"},{"date": "2015-04-02T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Identify why children are not in school: The biggest factor is economic constraints, and the fact that kids often need to choose between work and school. In an ideal world, we would be able to demonstrate the link between schools and future earnings. We need to get better at promoting the value of education to parents and children. Madeeha Ansari, writer and independent consultant, London, UK @madeeha_ansariSet universal minimum standards for schools: What makes a primary or a secondary school? Currently, you see a school under a tree with two teachers in one place but a primary school with a huge building and many teachers in another place - the same is the case for curriculum, teachers\u2019 qualifications and examinations. Government, community and private schools should have to adhere to the same basic principles. Dr Mir Afzal Tajik, director, Aga Khan University\u2019s Institute for Educational Development, Karachi, PakistanProvide transport for children and teachers: Lack of safe transportation is a major factor in teacher absenteeism and fatigue. It also affects children\u2019s attendance. School van transport is a valuable perk for our teachers. Amjad Noorani, education activist (Pakistan), The Citizens Foundation, San Francisco, USA @amjadtcfusa @TCFPakMobilise parents: For girls, parents are the biggest impediment to their education. More than half of girls who are out of school lack either parental consent or ability to pay schools fees. We need to advocate more for parents to get involved with community schools \u2013 whether they are on the management committee, or helping with the building, financing or security at their child\u2019s school. Roohi Abdullah, lead and initiator, Girl Rising Pakistan, Washington DC, USA @GirlRisingPakHold politicians to account: Central government and provincial governments have good intentions but no one\u2019s political stakes are invested in delivering that \u201cbetter\u201d set of outcomes, so they leave it to donors and NGOs. Until we can get Pakistani leaders to view a dysfunctional education regime as a political liability, we will keep grasping at non-solutions. Mosharraf Zaidi, campaign director, Alif Ailaan, Islamabad, Pakistan @mosharrafzaidiGet the private sector to offer more scholarships: The government could provide private schools with attractive packages such as cheaper utility bills in return for them making at least 10% of their places available for free to poor students. This could be especially effective in areas government schools have failed to reach. Zobaida Jalal, former minister of education, Balochistan, Pakistan @ZobaidaJalalScrap teaching in English:  We focus on English too much which is why we\u2019ve ended up with so much rote learning. Many teachers are trying to teach in a language they\u2019re not even fully competent in. Meanwhile, children who are confident in their own language are condemned as dumb if they can\u2019t pick up English. Zubeida Mustafa, columnist for Dawn, Karachi, Pakistan @zubeidamustafa @dawn_comListen to teachers: What do they need to be more effective? What needs to change for them to increase motivation and spend more time in the classroom? This feedback is not adequately collected or used at the moment. Adam Hall, project manager (education),  Adam Smith International, London, UKOffer stipends to girls: It\u2019s a slightly controversial method but in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa we found that providing stipends to girls at risk increased girls\u2019 attendance. Of course setting the amount for a stipend is very tricky to make sure it is not too expensive to do at scale, but we\u2019ve delivered 400,000 so far. Adam HallMake provisions for children with special needs: I think we always neglect the children with special needs and their education in our society. As minister for special education, I came out with a national plan of action for people with disabilities and the most vital element was inclusive education. Unfortunately, I haven\u2019t seen it widely implemented yet. Zobaida JalalCollect a wider variety of data: Most government data is focused on school building contracts and teachers\u2019 salaries, rather than on what the children are learning. How about running community focus groups routinely and having more nimble programmes that allow for mid-course correction? Noorulain Masood, CEO, Teach For Pakistan, Karachi, Pakistan @Noor_MasoodIncentivise teachers to learn as they earn: Teachers should be encouraged with salary incentives to take college qualifications and get a bachelors degree. Additionally, annual professional development workshops and in-service training should be provided. Higher competency should be rewarded. Amjad NooraniTake sanitation seriously: At our schools we have cleaning staff to maintain toilets during school hours. They also help with hygiene of young kids before they go to class as many children are from homes that do not have running water. Toilets, sanitation and privacy are not a trivial requirement. Amjad NooraniAdapt teaching techniques for volatile situations: Where schools are frequently closed due to violence, one possibility is home schooling. For example, in Ebola-affected Sierra Leone we moved to delivering educational radio programmes. Tricia Young, director, Child to Child, London, UK @ChildtoChildRead the full Q&A here.Is there anything that we\u2019ve left out? Leave your thoughts in the comments below.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Impact and effectiveness", "Global development professionals network", "Education", "Pakistan", "World news", "Gender", "The gender gap", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "14 routes to better education in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-05-29T06:16:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In some of the most socially conservative regions of Pakistan this weekend\u2019s local government elections will be men-only affairs.Local politicians and elders say parties contesting elections for district and village council seats in Hangu and parts of Malakand, districts of the north-western province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), have struck deals barring women from voting.There are fears of similar arrangements across KP, a province bordering Afghanistan where many Pashtun communities observe purdah traditions so strict that many female candidates do not publish photographs on election posters.The cultural difficulties are often compounded by dire security in areas where the Taliban and other militant groups are active.In a parliamentary byelection in Lower Dir this month, none of the eligible 50,000 women in the constituency turned out to vote. One report said mosques broadcast warnings to women, and polling stations were guarded by \u201cbaton-wielding men\u201d who blocked the few women who did try to vote.On Wednesday the high court in Peshawar threw out a petition lodged by 12 women from Lower Dir who demanded the election be re-run. Shahab Khattak, the women\u2019s lawyer, said the case was dismissed after 15 minutes, during which the judge seemed unsure whether women really were entitled to vote.\u201cThe honourable judge asked whether it was a fundamental right for women to vote,\u201d Khattak said. \u201cWe said indeed it is a fundamental right and a constitutional right. \u201cThat there has been massive discrimination against women should be clear from the zero participation at the polls.\u201dSiraj-ul-Haq, leader of the Jamaat-e-Islami, an Islamist party that jointly controls the KP government, argued that the women of Lower Dir had merely chosen to respect local traditions by not voting.Jamaat-e-Islami governs KP in coalition with the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), which is led by the former cricketer Imran Khan.One of the PTI\u2019s elected provincial representatives told the Guardian that the party had been complicit in keeping women away from the ballot box in KP, including in this weekend\u2019s poll in Hangu.In the runup to the 2013 general election the PTI in Upper Dir signed a written agreement with other parties barring women from voting and stipulating large fines for anyone breaking the agreement. In the end just one woman\u2019s vote was recorded.Ijaz Khan, a professor at Peshawar University, said political parties were to blame for not challenging social pressures in the most \u201cbackward\u201d areas of the province. \u201cIn order to win the seat they refuse to take a strong stance with their local chapter,\u201d he said. \u201cThe PTI may have women who go to their meetings in Islamabad or Lahore, but in the more traditional areas the party compromises on women\u2019s rights.\u201dThe courts and the provincial government have shown little interest in pursuing the issue of the Lower Dir byelection, but the election commission is investigating. It said it had taken \u201cserious notice\u201d of reports that women would be prevented from voting this weekend.Saima Munir, of the Aurat Foundation, a campaign group, said that if the election commission nullified the result and disqualified the winning candidate it would force dramatic change in the province. Nida Khan, a women\u2019s activist in Hangu, said elders in her community would continue to act with impunity. \u201cThere is no government writ in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,\u201d she said. \u201cWe don\u2019t need any Taliban since our so-called politicians with their extremist mindset are enough to push women into the dark.\u201d ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Gender", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Women barred from voting in parts of Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-16T10:27:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In the dense alleyways of Ittehad town on the outskirts of Karachi, the fastest growing city in Pakistan, Farhina Tousif is waging a losing battle with a mother over vaccinating her children against polio.\u201cDo you have any children in this household under the age of five?\u201d Tousif calls through a curtain separating the male and female quarters of a conservative Pashtun family. \u201cNo,\u201d comes the answer via a nine-year-old boy, who is translating between the national language, Urdu, and the woman\u2019s native Pashtu.\u201cSister, I know you have children because I can see your son there. For God\u2019s sake, don\u2019t be the enemy of your child \u2013 let me vaccinate him,\u201d says Tousif. The answer from behind the curtain is still a firm no.Tousif knows when she has lost, and moves swiftly on to the next house. But the unvaccinated child or children left behind are not the only ones at risk in a complicated and patchy effort to control the number of wild poliovirus cases found in Pakistan, which shot up from 58 in 2012 to 306 last year. Since the Taliban issued a ban on vaccinations, and compared female health workers to prostitutes for working outside the home, more than 80 vaccinators and the armed guards assigned to protect them have been gunned down.Tousif and others like her on the frontline of a battle to contain the disease have found their efforts entangled with women\u2019s right to work, claims of US espionage, a barely adequate healthcare system and a deep distrust of authority. The challenges sometimes feel insurmountable, Tousif says.When one of us dies, the number of vaccinators falls for months. But we need the money, so they usually come back\u201cMy colleagues risk their lives trying to help people, and get paid 500 rupees [\u00a33.30] a day. I have to encourage them, like I do the mothers I see, to go out and work each time. It\u2019s not the money, it\u2019s the fact they don\u2019t feel like we\u2019re winning the war on polio. And when one of us dies, the number of vaccinators falls for months. But we need the money, so they usually come back.\u201dThe Pakistani branch of the Taliban, the TTP, has seized on evidence that the vaccination campaign was used as cover by the CIA to gather intelligence. The US government said last year that the practice had stopped and the CIA director had instructed the agency \u201cto make no operational use of vaccination programmes, which include vaccination workers\u201d.But rumours spread fast in Pakistan and prove near-impossible to debunk once they have taken hold. Communities such as the Pushtuns now associate polio vaccinators with CIA spies and US drones. Added to this are the problems of keeping track of the million or so people internally displaced from places such as Waziristan because of the US drone-strike campaign, an under-resourced healthcare system and a lacklustre campaign against what the World Health Organisation has called a \u201cpublic health emergency of international concern\u201d.It is easy to see why Tousif is frustrated. In the face of lethal risks, she attempts to charm, coax or even force mothers to give the two drops of polio vaccine to their children. She has heard all the excuses: the medicine doesn\u2019t work, it\u2019s un-Islamic, you work for the Americans, we don\u2019t trust you.In Ittehad, she and her team of female health workers have half a day to vaccinate 20,000 children in a neighbourhood in which poor sanitation and overcrowding provide fertile ground for the virus. The previous week, a bomb was found attached to a rickshaw close to a hotel where some health workers were staying.Even under these harsh conditions, for Tousif and her colleagues it is either this or no work at all. Polio vaccination is one of a handful of jobs seen as acceptable for Muslim women. Tousif\u2019s earnings help with the rent on the one-bedroom flat she shares with her mechanic husband and three children, and with school fees.Her commitment to ending polio in Pakistan, one of handful of countries in the world where wild poliovirus can be found, is unwavering. But so is the opposition to the vaccination campaign.It is hard to convince Pakistani mothers to give their children the polio vaccine if root causes of the disease\u2019s spread, such as dirty water and open sewers, remain so badly managed. \u201cAll the millions they spend coming here every week banging on our doors and giving the drops is a waste and doesn\u2019t work,\u201d said one mother, echoing the views of others. \u201cMy kids play outside where there are open sewers and dirt water. All this money \u2013 why can\u2019t they clean the sewers with it? Why don\u2019t they help me send my children to school? Why doesn\u2019t the government spend the money on that?\u201dIn a report last October, the Independent Monitoring Board for polio described the Pakistani vaccination campaign as a \u201cdisaster\u201d \u2013 although money and resources since pumped into the campaign by the UN children\u2019s agency, Unicef, and the WHO have led to a fall in the numbers infected.Tousif is undeterred. \u201cOne day, when Pakistan is finally polio free, I can tell my kids that I was a part of that,\u201d she says.Nelufar Hedayat\u2019s Unreported World: Vaccination Wars will be shown on Channel 4 at 7.30pm on Friday @N_Hedayat", "tags": ["Polio", "Health", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "Children", "World Health Organisation", "World news"], "title": "Suspicion slows dangerous work to eradicate polio in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-10T11:17:35Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The man accused of masterminding the 2008 terror attack on Mumbai has walked free from a Pakistani jail after detention orders against him were dropped.The decision of Lahore\u2019s high court to release Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the alleged military chief of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) group, was described as an \u201cinsult to the victims\u201d of the attack, in which 166 people were killed.Delhi is frustrated by Pakistan\u2019s seven-year failure to successfully prosecute any of those allegedly involved in sending a boatload of young suicide attackers to India\u2019s financial capital.Rizwan Abbasi, the lawyer acting for Lakhvi, confirmed his client had been released from Adiala jail in Rawalpindi following the end of his \u201cillegal detention\u201d.\u201cJustice Anwar ul-Haq in his orders declared the detention unjustified and ordered an immediate release of Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi from the jail,\u201d he said.Pakistan\u2019s government had battled to keep Lakhvi behind bars since he was granted bail by an anti-terrorism court in Islamabad on 18 December last year, two days after a Taliban massacre of schoolchildren in Peshawar prompted the government to make grand promises to crack down on terrorist groups.The state, however, was only able to use \u201cmaintenance of public order\u201d legislation to hold him, because prosecutors have failed to marshal a case against him.A spokesman for India\u2019s interior ministry, who asked not to be named, criticised Lakhvi\u2019s release, calling the court\u2019s decision \u201can insult to the victims of the 26/11 Mumbai attack\u201d.\u201cThe global community should take serious note of Pakistan\u2019s double-speak on terrorism,\u201d the spokesman added.Abbasi said he would fight any other government attempts to keep Lakhvi locked up.\u201c[For the] last four months, we have fought for justice against the government decision to keep my client in illegal detention,\u201d he said. \u201cIf this is something the government again wishes to do, we are ready to knock the door of the courts once again.\u201d India\u2019s interior minister, Rajnath Singh, said: \u201cIndia wants talks with Pakistan, but the present development is unfortunate and very disappointing.\u201dThe two countries have fought three major wars since gaining their independence from Britain in 1947.Relations looked set to improve last year after the newly elected Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, invited his counterpart to his inauguration, but they deteriorated rapidly amid fierce exchanges of artillery fire and clashes along the disputed border between the two south Asian states.Earlier this week, in anticipation of the release, an Indian government spokesman said that \u201cknown terrorists not being effectively prosecuted constitutes a real security threat for India and the world\u201d.Lakhvi was originally arrested in December 2008 following the gunmen\u2019s three-day rampage in Mumbai\u2019s main railway station, five-star hotels and a cafe.Lakhvi, known as \u201cchacha Zaki\u201d within LeT, is accused of personally directing the 10 young attackers by phone from a safe house in Karachi.Despite phone-tap and witness evidence, including the confession of the sole surviving attacker, critics say a prosecution is unthinkable given the close relationship Pakistan\u2019s military has had with LeT, a jihadi group established in the early 1990s as an off-the-books force to help Pakistan prise the contested region of Kashmir away from India.Any prosecution, let alone extradition to India, could risk revealing any ongoing ties between Pakistan\u2019s intelligence establishment and LeT.Lakhvi is said to have had a relatively comfortable stay behind bars, enjoying perks including a television and access to a mobile phone, as well as being able to father a child.Sourav Mishra, a 35-year-old Mumbai resident who was injured in the attacks of 2008, said he hoped to see the perpetrators prosecuted and jailed in Pakistan, but understood that the neighbouring state \u201cwas in a lot of trouble right now and that it would be very difficult for them to nail someone for a crime that happened in India\u201d.\u201cI was very pained because on that day my own country failed to protect its citizens. There were attacks before and after [November 2008]. I think now perhaps we are better protected, but Mumbai has faced so many attacks you always feel vulnerable,\u201d said Mishra, who was in the famous Leopold\u2019s Cafe when it was attacked by the gunmen.India has repeatedly submitted its own evidence to Pakistani authorities. Rehman featured in the testimony of David Headley, a US national of Pakistani origin who joined LeT and carried out reconnaissance missions in Mumbai for the 26/11 attacks. Headley cooperated with US authorities after his arrest in 2009 and was eventually jailed in the US for 35 years. Headley was interviewed by Indian investigators while in custody and spoke at length about his relationship with Pakistani intelligence services. Rehman was also mentioned repeatedly in the testimony of Ajmal Kasab, the sole surviving gunman, who was convicted of terrorist charges and hanged in India in 2012. Kasab described Rehman handpicking the group of attackers and overseeing their training. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "Mumbai terror attacks", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Suspected mastermind of Mumbai terror attack released from Pakistan jail"},{"date": "2015-06-26T17:01:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For decades the school perched on a barren hill overlooking the lush fields of the Chitral valley has borne the name of Geoffrey Langlands, the revered former British army officer who dedicated his twilight years to running a school in one of Pakistan\u2019s most remote communities.But 25 years after the legendary Englishman took over as principal in this far-flung corner of the Hindu Kush, many local people want nothing more to do with the 97-year-old.Parents and teachers are furious with Langlands after he came roaring out of retirement this month to try to depose his successor, a British writer called Carey Schofield, whom they credit with turning round a failing school.\u201cWhatever he did for the institution is now disgraced,\u201d said Syed Taufeeq Jan, a retired professor whose grandson attends the school, originally known as the Sayurj public school. \u201cOur demand now is it should be changed back to its former name.\u201dExpunging the major\u2019s name from the Langlands school and college would be a sad coda to the career of a man who first came to British India in 1944 and never left the subcontinent. His well-publicised biography includes time serving in the Pakistani army, kidnap by Waziri tribesmen during a stint running a school on the lawless frontier with Afghanistan, and the education of many of the country\u2019s future rulers at Aitchison college, a grand British-style public school in Lahore.It was some of Aitchison\u2019s powerful old boys who helped him stage his dramatic attempt this month to oust Schofield from the job she took up just two years ago. One of them, the powerful provincial chief minister, Pervaiz Khattak, pledged to help his old teacher over a lunch meeting in the provincial capital at which Langlands said Schofield was ruining his legacy.Langlands urged another former pupil, the interior minister Chaudhry Nisar, not to renew Schofield\u2019s visa. The minister, who is currently engaged in a crackdown on foreign aid workers, \u201cdid not need much encouragement\u201d, Langlands said.Langlands then flew from his retirement home in Lahore to Chitral on 15 June and launched a power grab resembling one of the military coups that have plagued the country. Brandishing documents signed in his own name, he claimed to be the \u201cowner and founder\u201d of the college with the authority to reappoint himself as principal, sack the governors, declare himself chairman of the board and lay claim to the control of the school bank account.Parents were horrified to hear he had dismissed Schofield and reappointed seven teachers she had dismissed. Bashir Hussain Azad, a parent, said: \u201cMy son and daughter say that if Madame Carey is not here, they should be withdrawn and shifted to another school, and I agree with them.\u201dNearly 200 parents and all of the school\u2019s staff have signed petitions calling for the orders to be ignored and for Schofield, who is currently in London waiting for a new visa, to be allowed to return to her job. They say the elderly man was manipulated by a group of aggrieved former teachers who travelled to Lahore to lobby against Schofield earlier in the year.Abdullah, the former vice-principal who leads the group, said of Schofield: \u201cShe left no stone unturned in defaming the great work of Major Langlands and treating loyal teachers who had devoted their lives to this school with contempt.\u201d But current teachers have nothing but praise for a woman they say transformed a school that had lost its way under an increasingly frail principal who had suffered at least one stroke in his final years in Chitral.They say he was unable to control his staff, many of whom allegedly rarely bothered to take lessons. Students were said to have skipped school entirely or to have left classes to smoke hashish in a nearby gully, nicknamed \u201cTora Bora\u201d after the cave system in Afghanistan where Osama bin Laden once hid.\u201cThe school was nearly on the verge of collapse,\u201d said Sher Haider Khan, the director of studies. \u201cIt was financially insecure and discipline was terrible.\u201dFew signs remain of the school\u2019s alleged decline, save for graffiti that completely covers the ceilings of some classrooms and a patch of wall on a nearby building that laments: \u201cWe hate our life without Tora Bora.\u201dStaff credit Schofield with stamping out truancy and repairing the school\u2019s parlous finances. Haider said teachers were no longer going for months without their once near subsistence-level salaries and had responded well to more demanding standards.Schofield said a clash with a man she describes as a \u201cderanged legend\u201d was \u201csort of inevitable\u201d given the changes that were needed and his habit of constantly phoning up the teachers.\u201cThe school he created was a scandal,\u201d she said. \u201cEverybody assumed that as an army officer and an Englishman they would be getting all the things they were expecting \u2013 discipline, order, probity. But they were never there.\u201dShe said Langlands had been unable to accept that anyone other than he could run the school and had been stung by her reports to the board of a school endowment trust on which he sits.\u201cThe amazing thing is he how bloody cunning he is,\u201d she said. \u201cHe is supposed to be desperately frail, sitting in quiet seclusion, but actually he was up to all kinds of evil and schemes to undermine me.\u201dSchofield, the author of a book on the Pakistani army, is only the latest in a long line of adventurous Brits who have worked at a school that now educates 900 girls and boys on four separate sites. \u201cWe deliberately tried to recruit British tourists to come and help us set up the school,\u201d said Javed Majid, who founded the original primary school when he served as district commissioner in the late 1980s.Few highly qualified Pakistanis from outside Chitral were interested in moving to the former princely state that had always been somewhat removed from the rest of the country, Majid said, so he turned to buccaneering Brits attracted by the romance of the frontier region with Afghanistan.Only two small aircraft visit the town each week and heavy snowfall can make the full day\u2019s drive to the capital, Islamabad, impossible in winter. To help raise the status of an underdeveloped part of the country, all lessons are exclusively in English, still the essential language of the professional and government elite.\u201cIt used to be said Chitral was a good place only to find servants, not professionals. That was the stature of Chitral back then, but now the valley is producing engineers and doctors,\u201d Majid said. The school greatly expanded after Langlands took over in 1988, in large part due to funds he raised through his powerful connections.Speaking by phone from his retirement home in the grounds of Aitchison college, Langlands claimed Schofield\u2019s handling of school finances had forced him to act. \u201cShe was spending a lot of money very freely,\u201d he said. \u201cI was an orphan and had no money in my upbringing so I have been very careful about handling money, from birth to my present age of 97.\u201dLanglands insists he had the legal authority to seize control \u201cbecause the school has my name to it\u201d, something his detractors and the board of governors say is nonsense.\u201cFor a nearly 100-year-old man to come and announce he has sacked the principle at a stroke of a pen is totally extraordinary,\u201d said Zafar Hayat, a lawyer and parent of children at the school. \u201cHe is neither the founder nor owner of the school and this act has no sanctity in law.\u201dAmin Ul Haq, the district commissioner, who assisted Langlands on his recent swoop on Chitral, has been stung by the backlash from students, who held a demonstration outside his office. He now says the school remains under the charge of Schofield but that the provincial education chief will soon visit to decide \u201cthe future course of action\u201d.Siraj Ul-Mulk, a school governor and member of Chitral\u2019s former royal family, said the major\u2019s once-sainted reputation in the valley had been ruined.\u201cThe saddest thing is he is destroying his own legacy,\u201d he said. \u201cI don\u2019t blame him because he doesn\u2019t know what he is doing.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Education", "UK news"], "title": "Legendary Englishman in row over fate of Pakistan school that bears his name"},{"date": "2015-05-19T07:39:28Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An unprecedented attempt to improve cooperation between Afghan and Pakistani spies has caused uproar in Afghanistan, where politicians and the media accused the government of selling out to a mortal enemy.Pakistan\u2019s army confirmed the two countries\u2019 security agencies signed a memorandum of understanding last week in which Pakistan will help train and equip Afghan intelligence officers, take part in the interrogation of terror suspects and conduct joint operations.It is an astonishing step for Afghanistan\u2019s National Directorate of Security (NDS), which has long accused its opposite numbers at the Pakistani military\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI) of practically directing the Taliban insurgency.It is also the most dramatic gesture yet by Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president who came to power last year determined to win Islamabad\u2019s help in brokering peace talks with the Taliban by offering concessions that would have been unthinkable under his predecessor, Hamid Karzai.Ghani has upset hawks by sending Afghan cadets for training at Pakistan\u2019s officer academy and diverting scarce military resources to fight Pakistani militants hiding in Afghanistan. Even his November 2014 visit to the office of Pakistan\u2019s army chief in the garrison city of Rawalpindi was seen by some as an affront to national pride.We all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from PakistanThere are signs Ghani\u2019s strategy is paying off, with Taliban and Afghan representatives meeting for informal talks in Qatar this month. Last week, Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, travelled to Kabul to deliver an unprecedented public rebuke to the Taliban, which is engaged in a brutal summer campaign of violence. But with the number of attacks soaring, the diplomatic achievements have not been enough to appease Ghani\u2019s critics. On Monday, a senior member of the Afghan parliament ordered the international relations committee to summon NDS officials for a grilling over the intelligence-sharing deal.The immediate backlash highlights the difficult balance Ghani has to strike between pushing for peace and sustaining public support for his government. \u201cWe all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from Pakistan,\u201d said Haroun Mir, a Kabul analyst. \u201cSuddenly we want to share something we don\u2019t share with very close allies with a government we blame for every single attack.\u201dHighlighting its extreme sensitivity, the Afghan government did not formally announce the intelligence-sharing deal and denied that Pakistan will train and equip Afghan officers. Leaks to the Afghan media said that the NDS chief, Rahmatullah Nabil, was against the move. The memorandum of understanding was signed by a deputy NDS director general after Nabil refused to sign, said Davood Moradian, a Kabul-based analyst and ex-aide to Afghanistan\u2019s former national security adviser.\u201cThis was an initiative proposed by the British but the NDS chief refused to sign it despite enormous pressure,\u201d Moradian said. \u201cIt has not only heavily damaged morale within NDS but further damaged the credibility of Ghani and the national unity government.\u201dFollowing the uproar, Ajmal Obaid Abidy, spokesman for Ghani, attempted to play down its significance, saying other memorandums had been signed with the ISI in the past, but he did not say what areas they covered.Opponents of Ghani\u2019s strategy say Nabil and other top intelligence officials have been sidelined by the president and Hanif Atmar, his national security adviser.One former Karzai-era official said many in Kabul were shocked to learn that Nabil was excluded from at least one key meeting between Ghani and the ISI chief, Rizwan Akhtar in the last year.Pakistan has long-pushed for Nabil to be sacked after it emerged the NDS under his watch attempted to recruit Latif Mehsud, then the second most important commander in the Pakistani Taliban, as an intelligence source.Nabil later said the operation to cultivate Mehsud was a bid \u201cto send a message to Pakistan that if they can do this, we also can do it.\u201d Pakistan insists it is trying to push the Taliban \u2013 a movement it helped to power in the mid-1990s and continued to support after 2001 \u2013 towards a peaceful resolution of the conflict.\u201cUnfortunately there is a group [in the NDS] who do not want us to move forward,\u201d said a Pakistani intelligence official. \u201cThey have benefited from all the money that has come to this region and they are not interested in peace.\u201dAmrullah Saleh, the NDS director general from 2004 to 2010, said he would have been ashamed to sign such an agreement and predicted staunch opposition to it. \u201cI think a lot of us consider this a betrayal and a dishonouring of the sacrifices of our defence forces,\u201d he said. \u201cI never negotiated from a position of weakness. I always asked Pakistan to first stop terror, then ask Afghanistan to cooperate.\u201d", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Afghan backlash over security deal with Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-30T17:39:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten men involved in the attempt to kill Malala Yousafzai have been sentenced to life in prison by a Pakistani court, lawyers involved in the case have said.None of the men was in the team who shot the education activist in the head as she sat in a school minivan in 2012, but a security official said they had been part of a wider group of plotters involved in the planning and execution of the attack.The point-blank shooting of the then 15-year-old at the behest of the Pakistani Taliban caused global outrage and Malala later became the youngest ever winner of the Nobel prize. Related: Malala Yousafzai accepts Nobel peace prize with attack on arms spending One military source said on Thursday that only two of the 10 men had been sentenced by the anti-terrorism court in the city of Mingora, the capital of Malala\u2019s native Swat.However, court officials and lawyers involved in the case insisted all 10 had been given sentences of 25 years.The men\u2019s sentences for attempted murder could be increased if additional charges are brought against them.They were arrested in September last year in a swoop involving multiple security agencies and accused of being part of a group tasked by the Pakistani Taliban leader, Mullah Fazlullah, with killing a series of high-profile people, including Malala.She had infuriated the militants both with her advocacy for female education and her fearless public criticism of them.Malala first began exposing the miseries of life under militant rule in 2009 when, at the age of 12, she began blogging about life under the Taliban in Swat for the BBC Urdu website.A Pakistani offshoot of the Taliban had gradually come to dominate the picturesque region of Swat, implementing its version of Sharia law, which included public floggings and banning girls from going to school.The man believed to have fired the bullet at Malala\u2019s head, a militant called Ataullah Khan, is believed to be hiding in Afghanistan.Although Malala is celebrated around the world as a symbol of the struggle for female education, many in Pakistan are suspicious of the praise heaped on her by the west. She has lived in the UK since being taken there for life-saving treatment at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Birmingham.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Equality", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Gender", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan court jails 10 for Malala attack"},{"date": "2015-04-02T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Identify why children are not in school: The biggest factor is economic constraints, and the fact that kids often need to choose between work and school. In an ideal world, we would be able to demonstrate the link between schools and future earnings. We need to get better at promoting the value of education to parents and children. Madeeha Ansari, writer and independent consultant, London, UK @madeeha_ansariSet universal minimum standards for schools: What makes a primary or a secondary school? Currently, you see a school under a tree with two teachers in one place but a primary school with a huge building and many teachers in another place - the same is the case for curriculum, teachers\u2019 qualifications and examinations. Government, community and private schools should have to adhere to the same basic principles. Dr Mir Afzal Tajik, director, Aga Khan University\u2019s Institute for Educational Development, Karachi, PakistanProvide transport for children and teachers: Lack of safe transportation is a major factor in teacher absenteeism and fatigue. It also affects children\u2019s attendance. School van transport is a valuable perk for our teachers. Amjad Noorani, education activist (Pakistan), The Citizens Foundation, San Francisco, USA @amjadtcfusa @TCFPakMobilise parents: For girls, parents are the biggest impediment to their education. More than half of girls who are out of school lack either parental consent or ability to pay schools fees. We need to advocate more for parents to get involved with community schools \u2013 whether they are on the management committee, or helping with the building, financing or security at their child\u2019s school. Roohi Abdullah, lead and initiator, Girl Rising Pakistan, Washington DC, USA @GirlRisingPakHold politicians to account: Central government and provincial governments have good intentions but no one\u2019s political stakes are invested in delivering that \u201cbetter\u201d set of outcomes, so they leave it to donors and NGOs. Until we can get Pakistani leaders to view a dysfunctional education regime as a political liability, we will keep grasping at non-solutions. Mosharraf Zaidi, campaign director, Alif Ailaan, Islamabad, Pakistan @mosharrafzaidiGet the private sector to offer more scholarships: The government could provide private schools with attractive packages such as cheaper utility bills in return for them making at least 10% of their places available for free to poor students. This could be especially effective in areas government schools have failed to reach. Zobaida Jalal, former minister of education, Balochistan, Pakistan @ZobaidaJalalScrap teaching in English:  We focus on English too much which is why we\u2019ve ended up with so much rote learning. Many teachers are trying to teach in a language they\u2019re not even fully competent in. Meanwhile, children who are confident in their own language are condemned as dumb if they can\u2019t pick up English. Zubeida Mustafa, columnist for Dawn, Karachi, Pakistan @zubeidamustafa @dawn_comListen to teachers: What do they need to be more effective? What needs to change for them to increase motivation and spend more time in the classroom? This feedback is not adequately collected or used at the moment. Adam Hall, project manager (education),  Adam Smith International, London, UKOffer stipends to girls: It\u2019s a slightly controversial method but in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa we found that providing stipends to girls at risk increased girls\u2019 attendance. Of course setting the amount for a stipend is very tricky to make sure it is not too expensive to do at scale, but we\u2019ve delivered 400,000 so far. Adam HallMake provisions for children with special needs: I think we always neglect the children with special needs and their education in our society. As minister for special education, I came out with a national plan of action for people with disabilities and the most vital element was inclusive education. Unfortunately, I haven\u2019t seen it widely implemented yet. Zobaida JalalCollect a wider variety of data: Most government data is focused on school building contracts and teachers\u2019 salaries, rather than on what the children are learning. How about running community focus groups routinely and having more nimble programmes that allow for mid-course correction? Noorulain Masood, CEO, Teach For Pakistan, Karachi, Pakistan @Noor_MasoodIncentivise teachers to learn as they earn: Teachers should be encouraged with salary incentives to take college qualifications and get a bachelors degree. Additionally, annual professional development workshops and in-service training should be provided. Higher competency should be rewarded. Amjad NooraniTake sanitation seriously: At our schools we have cleaning staff to maintain toilets during school hours. They also help with hygiene of young kids before they go to class as many children are from homes that do not have running water. Toilets, sanitation and privacy are not a trivial requirement. Amjad NooraniAdapt teaching techniques for volatile situations: Where schools are frequently closed due to violence, one possibility is home schooling. For example, in Ebola-affected Sierra Leone we moved to delivering educational radio programmes. Tricia Young, director, Child to Child, London, UK @ChildtoChildRead the full Q&A here.Is there anything that we\u2019ve left out? Leave your thoughts in the comments below.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Impact and effectiveness", "Global development professionals network", "Education", "Pakistan", "World news", "Gender", "The gender gap", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "14 routes to better education in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-05-29T06:16:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In some of the most socially conservative regions of Pakistan this weekend\u2019s local government elections will be men-only affairs.Local politicians and elders say parties contesting elections for district and village council seats in Hangu and parts of Malakand, districts of the north-western province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), have struck deals barring women from voting.There are fears of similar arrangements across KP, a province bordering Afghanistan where many Pashtun communities observe purdah traditions so strict that many female candidates do not publish photographs on election posters.The cultural difficulties are often compounded by dire security in areas where the Taliban and other militant groups are active.In a parliamentary byelection in Lower Dir this month, none of the eligible 50,000 women in the constituency turned out to vote. One report said mosques broadcast warnings to women, and polling stations were guarded by \u201cbaton-wielding men\u201d who blocked the few women who did try to vote.On Wednesday the high court in Peshawar threw out a petition lodged by 12 women from Lower Dir who demanded the election be re-run. Shahab Khattak, the women\u2019s lawyer, said the case was dismissed after 15 minutes, during which the judge seemed unsure whether women really were entitled to vote.\u201cThe honourable judge asked whether it was a fundamental right for women to vote,\u201d Khattak said. \u201cWe said indeed it is a fundamental right and a constitutional right. \u201cThat there has been massive discrimination against women should be clear from the zero participation at the polls.\u201dSiraj-ul-Haq, leader of the Jamaat-e-Islami, an Islamist party that jointly controls the KP government, argued that the women of Lower Dir had merely chosen to respect local traditions by not voting.Jamaat-e-Islami governs KP in coalition with the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), which is led by the former cricketer Imran Khan.One of the PTI\u2019s elected provincial representatives told the Guardian that the party had been complicit in keeping women away from the ballot box in KP, including in this weekend\u2019s poll in Hangu.In the runup to the 2013 general election the PTI in Upper Dir signed a written agreement with other parties barring women from voting and stipulating large fines for anyone breaking the agreement. In the end just one woman\u2019s vote was recorded.Ijaz Khan, a professor at Peshawar University, said political parties were to blame for not challenging social pressures in the most \u201cbackward\u201d areas of the province. \u201cIn order to win the seat they refuse to take a strong stance with their local chapter,\u201d he said. \u201cThe PTI may have women who go to their meetings in Islamabad or Lahore, but in the more traditional areas the party compromises on women\u2019s rights.\u201dThe courts and the provincial government have shown little interest in pursuing the issue of the Lower Dir byelection, but the election commission is investigating. It said it had taken \u201cserious notice\u201d of reports that women would be prevented from voting this weekend.Saima Munir, of the Aurat Foundation, a campaign group, said that if the election commission nullified the result and disqualified the winning candidate it would force dramatic change in the province. Nida Khan, a women\u2019s activist in Hangu, said elders in her community would continue to act with impunity. \u201cThere is no government writ in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,\u201d she said. \u201cWe don\u2019t need any Taliban since our so-called politicians with their extremist mindset are enough to push women into the dark.\u201d ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Gender", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Women barred from voting in parts of Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-16T10:27:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In the dense alleyways of Ittehad town on the outskirts of Karachi, the fastest growing city in Pakistan, Farhina Tousif is waging a losing battle with a mother over vaccinating her children against polio.\u201cDo you have any children in this household under the age of five?\u201d Tousif calls through a curtain separating the male and female quarters of a conservative Pashtun family. \u201cNo,\u201d comes the answer via a nine-year-old boy, who is translating between the national language, Urdu, and the woman\u2019s native Pashtu.\u201cSister, I know you have children because I can see your son there. For God\u2019s sake, don\u2019t be the enemy of your child \u2013 let me vaccinate him,\u201d says Tousif. The answer from behind the curtain is still a firm no.Tousif knows when she has lost, and moves swiftly on to the next house. But the unvaccinated child or children left behind are not the only ones at risk in a complicated and patchy effort to control the number of wild poliovirus cases found in Pakistan, which shot up from 58 in 2012 to 306 last year. Since the Taliban issued a ban on vaccinations, and compared female health workers to prostitutes for working outside the home, more than 80 vaccinators and the armed guards assigned to protect them have been gunned down.Tousif and others like her on the frontline of a battle to contain the disease have found their efforts entangled with women\u2019s right to work, claims of US espionage, a barely adequate healthcare system and a deep distrust of authority. The challenges sometimes feel insurmountable, Tousif says.When one of us dies, the number of vaccinators falls for months. But we need the money, so they usually come back\u201cMy colleagues risk their lives trying to help people, and get paid 500 rupees [\u00a33.30] a day. I have to encourage them, like I do the mothers I see, to go out and work each time. It\u2019s not the money, it\u2019s the fact they don\u2019t feel like we\u2019re winning the war on polio. And when one of us dies, the number of vaccinators falls for months. But we need the money, so they usually come back.\u201dThe Pakistani branch of the Taliban, the TTP, has seized on evidence that the vaccination campaign was used as cover by the CIA to gather intelligence. The US government said last year that the practice had stopped and the CIA director had instructed the agency \u201cto make no operational use of vaccination programmes, which include vaccination workers\u201d.But rumours spread fast in Pakistan and prove near-impossible to debunk once they have taken hold. Communities such as the Pushtuns now associate polio vaccinators with CIA spies and US drones. Added to this are the problems of keeping track of the million or so people internally displaced from places such as Waziristan because of the US drone-strike campaign, an under-resourced healthcare system and a lacklustre campaign against what the World Health Organisation has called a \u201cpublic health emergency of international concern\u201d.It is easy to see why Tousif is frustrated. In the face of lethal risks, she attempts to charm, coax or even force mothers to give the two drops of polio vaccine to their children. She has heard all the excuses: the medicine doesn\u2019t work, it\u2019s un-Islamic, you work for the Americans, we don\u2019t trust you.In Ittehad, she and her team of female health workers have half a day to vaccinate 20,000 children in a neighbourhood in which poor sanitation and overcrowding provide fertile ground for the virus. The previous week, a bomb was found attached to a rickshaw close to a hotel where some health workers were staying.Even under these harsh conditions, for Tousif and her colleagues it is either this or no work at all. Polio vaccination is one of a handful of jobs seen as acceptable for Muslim women. Tousif\u2019s earnings help with the rent on the one-bedroom flat she shares with her mechanic husband and three children, and with school fees.Her commitment to ending polio in Pakistan, one of handful of countries in the world where wild poliovirus can be found, is unwavering. But so is the opposition to the vaccination campaign.It is hard to convince Pakistani mothers to give their children the polio vaccine if root causes of the disease\u2019s spread, such as dirty water and open sewers, remain so badly managed. \u201cAll the millions they spend coming here every week banging on our doors and giving the drops is a waste and doesn\u2019t work,\u201d said one mother, echoing the views of others. \u201cMy kids play outside where there are open sewers and dirt water. All this money \u2013 why can\u2019t they clean the sewers with it? Why don\u2019t they help me send my children to school? Why doesn\u2019t the government spend the money on that?\u201dIn a report last October, the Independent Monitoring Board for polio described the Pakistani vaccination campaign as a \u201cdisaster\u201d \u2013 although money and resources since pumped into the campaign by the UN children\u2019s agency, Unicef, and the WHO have led to a fall in the numbers infected.Tousif is undeterred. \u201cOne day, when Pakistan is finally polio free, I can tell my kids that I was a part of that,\u201d she says.Nelufar Hedayat\u2019s Unreported World: Vaccination Wars will be shown on Channel 4 at 7.30pm on Friday @N_Hedayat", "tags": ["Polio", "Health", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "Children", "World Health Organisation", "World news"], "title": "Suspicion slows dangerous work to eradicate polio in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-10T11:17:35Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The man accused of masterminding the 2008 terror attack on Mumbai has walked free from a Pakistani jail after detention orders against him were dropped.The decision of Lahore\u2019s high court to release Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the alleged military chief of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) group, was described as an \u201cinsult to the victims\u201d of the attack, in which 166 people were killed.Delhi is frustrated by Pakistan\u2019s seven-year failure to successfully prosecute any of those allegedly involved in sending a boatload of young suicide attackers to India\u2019s financial capital.Rizwan Abbasi, the lawyer acting for Lakhvi, confirmed his client had been released from Adiala jail in Rawalpindi following the end of his \u201cillegal detention\u201d.\u201cJustice Anwar ul-Haq in his orders declared the detention unjustified and ordered an immediate release of Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi from the jail,\u201d he said.Pakistan\u2019s government had battled to keep Lakhvi behind bars since he was granted bail by an anti-terrorism court in Islamabad on 18 December last year, two days after a Taliban massacre of schoolchildren in Peshawar prompted the government to make grand promises to crack down on terrorist groups.The state, however, was only able to use \u201cmaintenance of public order\u201d legislation to hold him, because prosecutors have failed to marshal a case against him.A spokesman for India\u2019s interior ministry, who asked not to be named, criticised Lakhvi\u2019s release, calling the court\u2019s decision \u201can insult to the victims of the 26/11 Mumbai attack\u201d.\u201cThe global community should take serious note of Pakistan\u2019s double-speak on terrorism,\u201d the spokesman added.Abbasi said he would fight any other government attempts to keep Lakhvi locked up.\u201c[For the] last four months, we have fought for justice against the government decision to keep my client in illegal detention,\u201d he said. \u201cIf this is something the government again wishes to do, we are ready to knock the door of the courts once again.\u201d India\u2019s interior minister, Rajnath Singh, said: \u201cIndia wants talks with Pakistan, but the present development is unfortunate and very disappointing.\u201dThe two countries have fought three major wars since gaining their independence from Britain in 1947.Relations looked set to improve last year after the newly elected Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, invited his counterpart to his inauguration, but they deteriorated rapidly amid fierce exchanges of artillery fire and clashes along the disputed border between the two south Asian states.Earlier this week, in anticipation of the release, an Indian government spokesman said that \u201cknown terrorists not being effectively prosecuted constitutes a real security threat for India and the world\u201d.Lakhvi was originally arrested in December 2008 following the gunmen\u2019s three-day rampage in Mumbai\u2019s main railway station, five-star hotels and a cafe.Lakhvi, known as \u201cchacha Zaki\u201d within LeT, is accused of personally directing the 10 young attackers by phone from a safe house in Karachi.Despite phone-tap and witness evidence, including the confession of the sole surviving attacker, critics say a prosecution is unthinkable given the close relationship Pakistan\u2019s military has had with LeT, a jihadi group established in the early 1990s as an off-the-books force to help Pakistan prise the contested region of Kashmir away from India.Any prosecution, let alone extradition to India, could risk revealing any ongoing ties between Pakistan\u2019s intelligence establishment and LeT.Lakhvi is said to have had a relatively comfortable stay behind bars, enjoying perks including a television and access to a mobile phone, as well as being able to father a child.Sourav Mishra, a 35-year-old Mumbai resident who was injured in the attacks of 2008, said he hoped to see the perpetrators prosecuted and jailed in Pakistan, but understood that the neighbouring state \u201cwas in a lot of trouble right now and that it would be very difficult for them to nail someone for a crime that happened in India\u201d.\u201cI was very pained because on that day my own country failed to protect its citizens. There were attacks before and after [November 2008]. I think now perhaps we are better protected, but Mumbai has faced so many attacks you always feel vulnerable,\u201d said Mishra, who was in the famous Leopold\u2019s Cafe when it was attacked by the gunmen.India has repeatedly submitted its own evidence to Pakistani authorities. Rehman featured in the testimony of David Headley, a US national of Pakistani origin who joined LeT and carried out reconnaissance missions in Mumbai for the 26/11 attacks. Headley cooperated with US authorities after his arrest in 2009 and was eventually jailed in the US for 35 years. Headley was interviewed by Indian investigators while in custody and spoke at length about his relationship with Pakistani intelligence services. Rehman was also mentioned repeatedly in the testimony of Ajmal Kasab, the sole surviving gunman, who was convicted of terrorist charges and hanged in India in 2012. Kasab described Rehman handpicking the group of attackers and overseeing their training. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "Mumbai terror attacks", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Suspected mastermind of Mumbai terror attack released from Pakistan jail"},{"date": "2015-06-26T17:01:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For decades the school perched on a barren hill overlooking the lush fields of the Chitral valley has borne the name of Geoffrey Langlands, the revered former British army officer who dedicated his twilight years to running a school in one of Pakistan\u2019s most remote communities.But 25 years after the legendary Englishman took over as principal in this far-flung corner of the Hindu Kush, many local people want nothing more to do with the 97-year-old.Parents and teachers are furious with Langlands after he came roaring out of retirement this month to try to depose his successor, a British writer called Carey Schofield, whom they credit with turning round a failing school.\u201cWhatever he did for the institution is now disgraced,\u201d said Syed Taufeeq Jan, a retired professor whose grandson attends the school, originally known as the Sayurj public school. \u201cOur demand now is it should be changed back to its former name.\u201dExpunging the major\u2019s name from the Langlands school and college would be a sad coda to the career of a man who first came to British India in 1944 and never left the subcontinent. His well-publicised biography includes time serving in the Pakistani army, kidnap by Waziri tribesmen during a stint running a school on the lawless frontier with Afghanistan, and the education of many of the country\u2019s future rulers at Aitchison college, a grand British-style public school in Lahore.It was some of Aitchison\u2019s powerful old boys who helped him stage his dramatic attempt this month to oust Schofield from the job she took up just two years ago. One of them, the powerful provincial chief minister, Pervaiz Khattak, pledged to help his old teacher over a lunch meeting in the provincial capital at which Langlands said Schofield was ruining his legacy.Langlands urged another former pupil, the interior minister Chaudhry Nisar, not to renew Schofield\u2019s visa. The minister, who is currently engaged in a crackdown on foreign aid workers, \u201cdid not need much encouragement\u201d, Langlands said.Langlands then flew from his retirement home in Lahore to Chitral on 15 June and launched a power grab resembling one of the military coups that have plagued the country. Brandishing documents signed in his own name, he claimed to be the \u201cowner and founder\u201d of the college with the authority to reappoint himself as principal, sack the governors, declare himself chairman of the board and lay claim to the control of the school bank account.Parents were horrified to hear he had dismissed Schofield and reappointed seven teachers she had dismissed. Bashir Hussain Azad, a parent, said: \u201cMy son and daughter say that if Madame Carey is not here, they should be withdrawn and shifted to another school, and I agree with them.\u201dNearly 200 parents and all of the school\u2019s staff have signed petitions calling for the orders to be ignored and for Schofield, who is currently in London waiting for a new visa, to be allowed to return to her job. They say the elderly man was manipulated by a group of aggrieved former teachers who travelled to Lahore to lobby against Schofield earlier in the year.Abdullah, the former vice-principal who leads the group, said of Schofield: \u201cShe left no stone unturned in defaming the great work of Major Langlands and treating loyal teachers who had devoted their lives to this school with contempt.\u201d But current teachers have nothing but praise for a woman they say transformed a school that had lost its way under an increasingly frail principal who had suffered at least one stroke in his final years in Chitral.They say he was unable to control his staff, many of whom allegedly rarely bothered to take lessons. Students were said to have skipped school entirely or to have left classes to smoke hashish in a nearby gully, nicknamed \u201cTora Bora\u201d after the cave system in Afghanistan where Osama bin Laden once hid.\u201cThe school was nearly on the verge of collapse,\u201d said Sher Haider Khan, the director of studies. \u201cIt was financially insecure and discipline was terrible.\u201dFew signs remain of the school\u2019s alleged decline, save for graffiti that completely covers the ceilings of some classrooms and a patch of wall on a nearby building that laments: \u201cWe hate our life without Tora Bora.\u201dStaff credit Schofield with stamping out truancy and repairing the school\u2019s parlous finances. Haider said teachers were no longer going for months without their once near subsistence-level salaries and had responded well to more demanding standards.Schofield said a clash with a man she describes as a \u201cderanged legend\u201d was \u201csort of inevitable\u201d given the changes that were needed and his habit of constantly phoning up the teachers.\u201cThe school he created was a scandal,\u201d she said. \u201cEverybody assumed that as an army officer and an Englishman they would be getting all the things they were expecting \u2013 discipline, order, probity. But they were never there.\u201dShe said Langlands had been unable to accept that anyone other than he could run the school and had been stung by her reports to the board of a school endowment trust on which he sits.\u201cThe amazing thing is he how bloody cunning he is,\u201d she said. \u201cHe is supposed to be desperately frail, sitting in quiet seclusion, but actually he was up to all kinds of evil and schemes to undermine me.\u201dSchofield, the author of a book on the Pakistani army, is only the latest in a long line of adventurous Brits who have worked at a school that now educates 900 girls and boys on four separate sites. \u201cWe deliberately tried to recruit British tourists to come and help us set up the school,\u201d said Javed Majid, who founded the original primary school when he served as district commissioner in the late 1980s.Few highly qualified Pakistanis from outside Chitral were interested in moving to the former princely state that had always been somewhat removed from the rest of the country, Majid said, so he turned to buccaneering Brits attracted by the romance of the frontier region with Afghanistan.Only two small aircraft visit the town each week and heavy snowfall can make the full day\u2019s drive to the capital, Islamabad, impossible in winter. To help raise the status of an underdeveloped part of the country, all lessons are exclusively in English, still the essential language of the professional and government elite.\u201cIt used to be said Chitral was a good place only to find servants, not professionals. That was the stature of Chitral back then, but now the valley is producing engineers and doctors,\u201d Majid said. The school greatly expanded after Langlands took over in 1988, in large part due to funds he raised through his powerful connections.Speaking by phone from his retirement home in the grounds of Aitchison college, Langlands claimed Schofield\u2019s handling of school finances had forced him to act. \u201cShe was spending a lot of money very freely,\u201d he said. \u201cI was an orphan and had no money in my upbringing so I have been very careful about handling money, from birth to my present age of 97.\u201dLanglands insists he had the legal authority to seize control \u201cbecause the school has my name to it\u201d, something his detractors and the board of governors say is nonsense.\u201cFor a nearly 100-year-old man to come and announce he has sacked the principle at a stroke of a pen is totally extraordinary,\u201d said Zafar Hayat, a lawyer and parent of children at the school. \u201cHe is neither the founder nor owner of the school and this act has no sanctity in law.\u201dAmin Ul Haq, the district commissioner, who assisted Langlands on his recent swoop on Chitral, has been stung by the backlash from students, who held a demonstration outside his office. He now says the school remains under the charge of Schofield but that the provincial education chief will soon visit to decide \u201cthe future course of action\u201d.Siraj Ul-Mulk, a school governor and member of Chitral\u2019s former royal family, said the major\u2019s once-sainted reputation in the valley had been ruined.\u201cThe saddest thing is he is destroying his own legacy,\u201d he said. \u201cI don\u2019t blame him because he doesn\u2019t know what he is doing.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Education", "UK news"], "title": "Legendary Englishman in row over fate of Pakistan school that bears his name"},{"date": "2015-06-11T23:01:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Villages in the foothills of the Hindu Kush mountain range in northern Pakistan are beautiful, dangerous and remote. Close to the Afghan border and far beyond the reach of aid groups and governments, they have long been deprived of technology, ravaged by conflict, and devastated by earthquakes and floods.But by harnessing the small glacier-meltwater rivers that drop steeply off the soaring mountains, one Pakistani non-profit group is said to be laying the foundations for future peace and prosperity \u2013 and bringing hope to some of South Asia\u2019s most marginalised and isolated people. Since it started work in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region 11 years ago, the Sarhad Rural Support Programme (SRSP) has constructed 189 village micro-hydro schemes and brought power to around 365,000 people in the area, says its director, Masood Ul-Mulk. In two more years, he says, an additional 300,000 people could have power.\u201cMany communities have been using candles. Electricity means refrigerators in hospitals and schools, and telephones. It transforms lives. When we brought light to one village, one old lady said to me, \u2018Son, you have just added 15 years to my life,\u2019\u201d he said.People used to leave the villages as their studies suffered without electricity. If their needs are met, why leave?\u201cWe do not see ourselves as energy generators but as an organisation that gives hope to people who have been devastated by conflict and floods. Electricity is a way to harmonise and bring communities together. Providing light is just the beginning of the process of building up communities. The education, energy and social programmes all bring people a feeling of success and achievement.\u201dHazrat Gul, from the Swat region, said that before the hydro schemes, young people were leaving the villages in droves. \u201cWe used to burn wood, candles and lanterns to get light. Now children complete their homework and people have access to the internet and mobile phones can be charged. People used to leave the village as their studies suffered without electricity. When all their needs are met at home, why would they leave?\u201dBut SRSP\u2019s work takes place amid sporadic clan and ethnic conflicts that can displace people from the local communities. The presence of groups of Taliban and tribal militants residing in the area has led to continual tensions.\u201cThese are very complex environments that are not easy to decipher from a distance. People can have many identities. You can have a national, ethnic, geographical or village identity,\u201d says Ul-Mulk.The conflict derives partly from the traditional isolation and marginalisation of the area, he says. \u201cOne thing that feeds into conflict is deprivation. There is conflict in all the mountain regions of Nepal, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Why? One reason is that they are all marginalised and deprived.\u201dOn Thursday evening, SRSP won a prestigious Ashden international award for its work on improving access to sustainable energy.Martin Wright, a judge for Ashden who visited the area this year, was impressed by how electricity was spurring development in such an idyllic location. \u201cPicture snow-capped mountains rising up out of swaths of pine forest like something out of a fairy tale \u2026 Deep green valleys, planted out with spring wheat, full of apricot and apple blossom, rushing, tumbling streams; wider, flowing rivers \u2013 and spring flowers bursting from the melting snow,\u201d said Wright.\u201cSRSP is demonstrating the wonderful chain reaction that results from bringing modern power to a community for the first time. As well as providing light at night, its micro-hydro plants are enabling businesses to thrive, health clinics to operate fully and bringing 21st-century communications and education facilities to one of the most challenging parts of Asia,\u201d Wright said.\u201cPeople are thinking up new ways to use the power. Olive trees grow wild in Swat, and now people are harvesting and pressing the olives for sale. They can sell more now because they can contact markets with their phones and sometimes the internet, all of which is opening up new opportunities.\u201cThe most unexpected thing I saw \u2013 up in a remote valley in Chitral \u2013 was a microwave oven. Some people had electric water heaters and irons as well. So there was a real sense of bringing home comforts \u2013 all through sustainable electricity \u2013 to distant areas. And that means people might be more likely to stay there.\u201d", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Hydropower", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Sustainable development", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: 'Son, you brought electricity to the village and added 15 years to my life'"},{"date": "2015-05-19T07:39:28Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "An unprecedented attempt to improve cooperation between Afghan and Pakistani spies has caused uproar in Afghanistan, where politicians and the media accused the government of selling out to a mortal enemy.Pakistan\u2019s army confirmed the two countries\u2019 security agencies signed a memorandum of understanding last week in which Pakistan will help train and equip Afghan intelligence officers, take part in the interrogation of terror suspects and conduct joint operations.It is an astonishing step for Afghanistan\u2019s National Directorate of Security (NDS), which has long accused its opposite numbers at the Pakistani military\u2019s Inter-Services Intelligence directorate (ISI) of practically directing the Taliban insurgency.It is also the most dramatic gesture yet by Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president who came to power last year determined to win Islamabad\u2019s help in brokering peace talks with the Taliban by offering concessions that would have been unthinkable under his predecessor, Hamid Karzai.Ghani has upset hawks by sending Afghan cadets for training at Pakistan\u2019s officer academy and diverting scarce military resources to fight Pakistani militants hiding in Afghanistan. Even his November 2014 visit to the office of Pakistan\u2019s army chief in the garrison city of Rawalpindi was seen by some as an affront to national pride.We all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from PakistanThere are signs Ghani\u2019s strategy is paying off, with Taliban and Afghan representatives meeting for informal talks in Qatar this month. Last week, Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, travelled to Kabul to deliver an unprecedented public rebuke to the Taliban, which is engaged in a brutal summer campaign of violence. But with the number of attacks soaring, the diplomatic achievements have not been enough to appease Ghani\u2019s critics. On Monday, a senior member of the Afghan parliament ordered the international relations committee to summon NDS officials for a grilling over the intelligence-sharing deal.The immediate backlash highlights the difficult balance Ghani has to strike between pushing for peace and sustaining public support for his government. \u201cWe all know these daily attacks, the suicide bombers, the terrorists are coming from Pakistan,\u201d said Haroun Mir, a Kabul analyst. \u201cSuddenly we want to share something we don\u2019t share with very close allies with a government we blame for every single attack.\u201dHighlighting its extreme sensitivity, the Afghan government did not formally announce the intelligence-sharing deal and denied that Pakistan will train and equip Afghan officers. Leaks to the Afghan media said that the NDS chief, Rahmatullah Nabil, was against the move. The memorandum of understanding was signed by a deputy NDS director general after Nabil refused to sign, said Davood Moradian, a Kabul-based analyst and ex-aide to Afghanistan\u2019s former national security adviser.\u201cThis was an initiative proposed by the British but the NDS chief refused to sign it despite enormous pressure,\u201d Moradian said. \u201cIt has not only heavily damaged morale within NDS but further damaged the credibility of Ghani and the national unity government.\u201dFollowing the uproar, Ajmal Obaid Abidy, spokesman for Ghani, attempted to play down its significance, saying other memorandums had been signed with the ISI in the past, but he did not say what areas they covered.Opponents of Ghani\u2019s strategy say Nabil and other top intelligence officials have been sidelined by the president and Hanif Atmar, his national security adviser.One former Karzai-era official said many in Kabul were shocked to learn that Nabil was excluded from at least one key meeting between Ghani and the ISI chief, Rizwan Akhtar in the last year.Pakistan has long-pushed for Nabil to be sacked after it emerged the NDS under his watch attempted to recruit Latif Mehsud, then the second most important commander in the Pakistani Taliban, as an intelligence source.Nabil later said the operation to cultivate Mehsud was a bid \u201cto send a message to Pakistan that if they can do this, we also can do it.\u201d Pakistan insists it is trying to push the Taliban \u2013 a movement it helped to power in the mid-1990s and continued to support after 2001 \u2013 towards a peaceful resolution of the conflict.\u201cUnfortunately there is a group [in the NDS] who do not want us to move forward,\u201d said a Pakistani intelligence official. \u201cThey have benefited from all the money that has come to this region and they are not interested in peace.\u201dAmrullah Saleh, the NDS director general from 2004 to 2010, said he would have been ashamed to sign such an agreement and predicted staunch opposition to it. \u201cI think a lot of us consider this a betrayal and a dishonouring of the sacrifices of our defence forces,\u201d he said. \u201cI never negotiated from a position of weakness. I always asked Pakistan to first stop terror, then ask Afghanistan to cooperate.\u201d", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Afghan backlash over security deal with Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-30T17:39:39Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Ten men involved in the attempt to kill Malala Yousafzai have been sentenced to life in prison by a Pakistani court, lawyers involved in the case have said.None of the men was in the team who shot the education activist in the head as she sat in a school minivan in 2012, but a security official said they had been part of a wider group of plotters involved in the planning and execution of the attack.The point-blank shooting of the then 15-year-old at the behest of the Pakistani Taliban caused global outrage and Malala later became the youngest ever winner of the Nobel prize. Related: Malala Yousafzai accepts Nobel peace prize with attack on arms spending One military source said on Thursday that only two of the 10 men had been sentenced by the anti-terrorism court in the city of Mingora, the capital of Malala\u2019s native Swat.However, court officials and lawyers involved in the case insisted all 10 had been given sentences of 25 years.The men\u2019s sentences for attempted murder could be increased if additional charges are brought against them.They were arrested in September last year in a swoop involving multiple security agencies and accused of being part of a group tasked by the Pakistani Taliban leader, Mullah Fazlullah, with killing a series of high-profile people, including Malala.She had infuriated the militants both with her advocacy for female education and her fearless public criticism of them.Malala first began exposing the miseries of life under militant rule in 2009 when, at the age of 12, she began blogging about life under the Taliban in Swat for the BBC Urdu website.A Pakistani offshoot of the Taliban had gradually come to dominate the picturesque region of Swat, implementing its version of Sharia law, which included public floggings and banning girls from going to school.The man believed to have fired the bullet at Malala\u2019s head, a militant called Ataullah Khan, is believed to be hiding in Afghanistan.Although Malala is celebrated around the world as a symbol of the struggle for female education, many in Pakistan are suspicious of the praise heaped on her by the west. She has lived in the UK since being taken there for life-saving treatment at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Birmingham.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "Pakistan", "Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Equality", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Gender", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan court jails 10 for Malala attack"},{"date": "2015-04-02T07:00:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Identify why children are not in school: The biggest factor is economic constraints, and the fact that kids often need to choose between work and school. In an ideal world, we would be able to demonstrate the link between schools and future earnings. We need to get better at promoting the value of education to parents and children. Madeeha Ansari, writer and independent consultant, London, UK @madeeha_ansariSet universal minimum standards for schools: What makes a primary or a secondary school? Currently, you see a school under a tree with two teachers in one place but a primary school with a huge building and many teachers in another place - the same is the case for curriculum, teachers\u2019 qualifications and examinations. Government, community and private schools should have to adhere to the same basic principles. Dr Mir Afzal Tajik, director, Aga Khan University\u2019s Institute for Educational Development, Karachi, PakistanProvide transport for children and teachers: Lack of safe transportation is a major factor in teacher absenteeism and fatigue. It also affects children\u2019s attendance. School van transport is a valuable perk for our teachers. Amjad Noorani, education activist (Pakistan), The Citizens Foundation, San Francisco, USA @amjadtcfusa @TCFPakMobilise parents: For girls, parents are the biggest impediment to their education. More than half of girls who are out of school lack either parental consent or ability to pay schools fees. We need to advocate more for parents to get involved with community schools \u2013 whether they are on the management committee, or helping with the building, financing or security at their child\u2019s school. Roohi Abdullah, lead and initiator, Girl Rising Pakistan, Washington DC, USA @GirlRisingPakHold politicians to account: Central government and provincial governments have good intentions but no one\u2019s political stakes are invested in delivering that \u201cbetter\u201d set of outcomes, so they leave it to donors and NGOs. Until we can get Pakistani leaders to view a dysfunctional education regime as a political liability, we will keep grasping at non-solutions. Mosharraf Zaidi, campaign director, Alif Ailaan, Islamabad, Pakistan @mosharrafzaidiGet the private sector to offer more scholarships: The government could provide private schools with attractive packages such as cheaper utility bills in return for them making at least 10% of their places available for free to poor students. This could be especially effective in areas government schools have failed to reach. Zobaida Jalal, former minister of education, Balochistan, Pakistan @ZobaidaJalalScrap teaching in English:  We focus on English too much which is why we\u2019ve ended up with so much rote learning. Many teachers are trying to teach in a language they\u2019re not even fully competent in. Meanwhile, children who are confident in their own language are condemned as dumb if they can\u2019t pick up English. Zubeida Mustafa, columnist for Dawn, Karachi, Pakistan @zubeidamustafa @dawn_comListen to teachers: What do they need to be more effective? What needs to change for them to increase motivation and spend more time in the classroom? This feedback is not adequately collected or used at the moment. Adam Hall, project manager (education),  Adam Smith International, London, UKOffer stipends to girls: It\u2019s a slightly controversial method but in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa we found that providing stipends to girls at risk increased girls\u2019 attendance. Of course setting the amount for a stipend is very tricky to make sure it is not too expensive to do at scale, but we\u2019ve delivered 400,000 so far. Adam HallMake provisions for children with special needs: I think we always neglect the children with special needs and their education in our society. As minister for special education, I came out with a national plan of action for people with disabilities and the most vital element was inclusive education. Unfortunately, I haven\u2019t seen it widely implemented yet. Zobaida JalalCollect a wider variety of data: Most government data is focused on school building contracts and teachers\u2019 salaries, rather than on what the children are learning. How about running community focus groups routinely and having more nimble programmes that allow for mid-course correction? Noorulain Masood, CEO, Teach For Pakistan, Karachi, Pakistan @Noor_MasoodIncentivise teachers to learn as they earn: Teachers should be encouraged with salary incentives to take college qualifications and get a bachelors degree. Additionally, annual professional development workshops and in-service training should be provided. Higher competency should be rewarded. Amjad NooraniTake sanitation seriously: At our schools we have cleaning staff to maintain toilets during school hours. They also help with hygiene of young kids before they go to class as many children are from homes that do not have running water. Toilets, sanitation and privacy are not a trivial requirement. Amjad NooraniAdapt teaching techniques for volatile situations: Where schools are frequently closed due to violence, one possibility is home schooling. For example, in Ebola-affected Sierra Leone we moved to delivering educational radio programmes. Tricia Young, director, Child to Child, London, UK @ChildtoChildRead the full Q&A here.Is there anything that we\u2019ve left out? Leave your thoughts in the comments below.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Impact and effectiveness", "Global development professionals network", "Education", "Pakistan", "World news", "Gender", "The gender gap", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "14 routes to better education in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-05-29T06:16:02Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In some of the most socially conservative regions of Pakistan this weekend\u2019s local government elections will be men-only affairs.Local politicians and elders say parties contesting elections for district and village council seats in Hangu and parts of Malakand, districts of the north-western province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), have struck deals barring women from voting.There are fears of similar arrangements across KP, a province bordering Afghanistan where many Pashtun communities observe purdah traditions so strict that many female candidates do not publish photographs on election posters.The cultural difficulties are often compounded by dire security in areas where the Taliban and other militant groups are active.In a parliamentary byelection in Lower Dir this month, none of the eligible 50,000 women in the constituency turned out to vote. One report said mosques broadcast warnings to women, and polling stations were guarded by \u201cbaton-wielding men\u201d who blocked the few women who did try to vote.On Wednesday the high court in Peshawar threw out a petition lodged by 12 women from Lower Dir who demanded the election be re-run. Shahab Khattak, the women\u2019s lawyer, said the case was dismissed after 15 minutes, during which the judge seemed unsure whether women really were entitled to vote.\u201cThe honourable judge asked whether it was a fundamental right for women to vote,\u201d Khattak said. \u201cWe said indeed it is a fundamental right and a constitutional right. \u201cThat there has been massive discrimination against women should be clear from the zero participation at the polls.\u201dSiraj-ul-Haq, leader of the Jamaat-e-Islami, an Islamist party that jointly controls the KP government, argued that the women of Lower Dir had merely chosen to respect local traditions by not voting.Jamaat-e-Islami governs KP in coalition with the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), which is led by the former cricketer Imran Khan.One of the PTI\u2019s elected provincial representatives told the Guardian that the party had been complicit in keeping women away from the ballot box in KP, including in this weekend\u2019s poll in Hangu.In the runup to the 2013 general election the PTI in Upper Dir signed a written agreement with other parties barring women from voting and stipulating large fines for anyone breaking the agreement. In the end just one woman\u2019s vote was recorded.Ijaz Khan, a professor at Peshawar University, said political parties were to blame for not challenging social pressures in the most \u201cbackward\u201d areas of the province. \u201cIn order to win the seat they refuse to take a strong stance with their local chapter,\u201d he said. \u201cThe PTI may have women who go to their meetings in Islamabad or Lahore, but in the more traditional areas the party compromises on women\u2019s rights.\u201dThe courts and the provincial government have shown little interest in pursuing the issue of the Lower Dir byelection, but the election commission is investigating. It said it had taken \u201cserious notice\u201d of reports that women would be prevented from voting this weekend.Saima Munir, of the Aurat Foundation, a campaign group, said that if the election commission nullified the result and disqualified the winning candidate it would force dramatic change in the province. Nida Khan, a women\u2019s activist in Hangu, said elders in her community would continue to act with impunity. \u201cThere is no government writ in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,\u201d she said. \u201cWe don\u2019t need any Taliban since our so-called politicians with their extremist mindset are enough to push women into the dark.\u201d ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Gender", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Women barred from voting in parts of Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-16T10:27:58Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "In the dense alleyways of Ittehad town on the outskirts of Karachi, the fastest growing city in Pakistan, Farhina Tousif is waging a losing battle with a mother over vaccinating her children against polio.\u201cDo you have any children in this household under the age of five?\u201d Tousif calls through a curtain separating the male and female quarters of a conservative Pashtun family. \u201cNo,\u201d comes the answer via a nine-year-old boy, who is translating between the national language, Urdu, and the woman\u2019s native Pashtu.\u201cSister, I know you have children because I can see your son there. For God\u2019s sake, don\u2019t be the enemy of your child \u2013 let me vaccinate him,\u201d says Tousif. The answer from behind the curtain is still a firm no.Tousif knows when she has lost, and moves swiftly on to the next house. But the unvaccinated child or children left behind are not the only ones at risk in a complicated and patchy effort to control the number of wild poliovirus cases found in Pakistan, which shot up from 58 in 2012 to 306 last year. Since the Taliban issued a ban on vaccinations, and compared female health workers to prostitutes for working outside the home, more than 80 vaccinators and the armed guards assigned to protect them have been gunned down.Tousif and others like her on the frontline of a battle to contain the disease have found their efforts entangled with women\u2019s right to work, claims of US espionage, a barely adequate healthcare system and a deep distrust of authority. The challenges sometimes feel insurmountable, Tousif says.When one of us dies, the number of vaccinators falls for months. But we need the money, so they usually come back\u201cMy colleagues risk their lives trying to help people, and get paid 500 rupees [\u00a33.30] a day. I have to encourage them, like I do the mothers I see, to go out and work each time. It\u2019s not the money, it\u2019s the fact they don\u2019t feel like we\u2019re winning the war on polio. And when one of us dies, the number of vaccinators falls for months. But we need the money, so they usually come back.\u201dThe Pakistani branch of the Taliban, the TTP, has seized on evidence that the vaccination campaign was used as cover by the CIA to gather intelligence. The US government said last year that the practice had stopped and the CIA director had instructed the agency \u201cto make no operational use of vaccination programmes, which include vaccination workers\u201d.But rumours spread fast in Pakistan and prove near-impossible to debunk once they have taken hold. Communities such as the Pushtuns now associate polio vaccinators with CIA spies and US drones. Added to this are the problems of keeping track of the million or so people internally displaced from places such as Waziristan because of the US drone-strike campaign, an under-resourced healthcare system and a lacklustre campaign against what the World Health Organisation has called a \u201cpublic health emergency of international concern\u201d.It is easy to see why Tousif is frustrated. In the face of lethal risks, she attempts to charm, coax or even force mothers to give the two drops of polio vaccine to their children. She has heard all the excuses: the medicine doesn\u2019t work, it\u2019s un-Islamic, you work for the Americans, we don\u2019t trust you.In Ittehad, she and her team of female health workers have half a day to vaccinate 20,000 children in a neighbourhood in which poor sanitation and overcrowding provide fertile ground for the virus. The previous week, a bomb was found attached to a rickshaw close to a hotel where some health workers were staying.Even under these harsh conditions, for Tousif and her colleagues it is either this or no work at all. Polio vaccination is one of a handful of jobs seen as acceptable for Muslim women. Tousif\u2019s earnings help with the rent on the one-bedroom flat she shares with her mechanic husband and three children, and with school fees.Her commitment to ending polio in Pakistan, one of handful of countries in the world where wild poliovirus can be found, is unwavering. But so is the opposition to the vaccination campaign.It is hard to convince Pakistani mothers to give their children the polio vaccine if root causes of the disease\u2019s spread, such as dirty water and open sewers, remain so badly managed. \u201cAll the millions they spend coming here every week banging on our doors and giving the drops is a waste and doesn\u2019t work,\u201d said one mother, echoing the views of others. \u201cMy kids play outside where there are open sewers and dirt water. All this money \u2013 why can\u2019t they clean the sewers with it? Why don\u2019t they help me send my children to school? Why doesn\u2019t the government spend the money on that?\u201dIn a report last October, the Independent Monitoring Board for polio described the Pakistani vaccination campaign as a \u201cdisaster\u201d \u2013 although money and resources since pumped into the campaign by the UN children\u2019s agency, Unicef, and the WHO have led to a fall in the numbers infected.Tousif is undeterred. \u201cOne day, when Pakistan is finally polio free, I can tell my kids that I was a part of that,\u201d she says.Nelufar Hedayat\u2019s Unreported World: Vaccination Wars will be shown on Channel 4 at 7.30pm on Friday @N_Hedayat", "tags": ["Polio", "Health", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "Children", "World Health Organisation", "World news"], "title": "Suspicion slows dangerous work to eradicate polio in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-04-10T11:17:35Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The man accused of masterminding the 2008 terror attack on Mumbai has walked free from a Pakistani jail after detention orders against him were dropped.The decision of Lahore\u2019s high court to release Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the alleged military chief of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) group, was described as an \u201cinsult to the victims\u201d of the attack, in which 166 people were killed.Delhi is frustrated by Pakistan\u2019s seven-year failure to successfully prosecute any of those allegedly involved in sending a boatload of young suicide attackers to India\u2019s financial capital.Rizwan Abbasi, the lawyer acting for Lakhvi, confirmed his client had been released from Adiala jail in Rawalpindi following the end of his \u201cillegal detention\u201d.\u201cJustice Anwar ul-Haq in his orders declared the detention unjustified and ordered an immediate release of Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi from the jail,\u201d he said.Pakistan\u2019s government had battled to keep Lakhvi behind bars since he was granted bail by an anti-terrorism court in Islamabad on 18 December last year, two days after a Taliban massacre of schoolchildren in Peshawar prompted the government to make grand promises to crack down on terrorist groups.The state, however, was only able to use \u201cmaintenance of public order\u201d legislation to hold him, because prosecutors have failed to marshal a case against him.A spokesman for India\u2019s interior ministry, who asked not to be named, criticised Lakhvi\u2019s release, calling the court\u2019s decision \u201can insult to the victims of the 26/11 Mumbai attack\u201d.\u201cThe global community should take serious note of Pakistan\u2019s double-speak on terrorism,\u201d the spokesman added.Abbasi said he would fight any other government attempts to keep Lakhvi locked up.\u201c[For the] last four months, we have fought for justice against the government decision to keep my client in illegal detention,\u201d he said. \u201cIf this is something the government again wishes to do, we are ready to knock the door of the courts once again.\u201d India\u2019s interior minister, Rajnath Singh, said: \u201cIndia wants talks with Pakistan, but the present development is unfortunate and very disappointing.\u201dThe two countries have fought three major wars since gaining their independence from Britain in 1947.Relations looked set to improve last year after the newly elected Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, invited his counterpart to his inauguration, but they deteriorated rapidly amid fierce exchanges of artillery fire and clashes along the disputed border between the two south Asian states.Earlier this week, in anticipation of the release, an Indian government spokesman said that \u201cknown terrorists not being effectively prosecuted constitutes a real security threat for India and the world\u201d.Lakhvi was originally arrested in December 2008 following the gunmen\u2019s three-day rampage in Mumbai\u2019s main railway station, five-star hotels and a cafe.Lakhvi, known as \u201cchacha Zaki\u201d within LeT, is accused of personally directing the 10 young attackers by phone from a safe house in Karachi.Despite phone-tap and witness evidence, including the confession of the sole surviving attacker, critics say a prosecution is unthinkable given the close relationship Pakistan\u2019s military has had with LeT, a jihadi group established in the early 1990s as an off-the-books force to help Pakistan prise the contested region of Kashmir away from India.Any prosecution, let alone extradition to India, could risk revealing any ongoing ties between Pakistan\u2019s intelligence establishment and LeT.Lakhvi is said to have had a relatively comfortable stay behind bars, enjoying perks including a television and access to a mobile phone, as well as being able to father a child.Sourav Mishra, a 35-year-old Mumbai resident who was injured in the attacks of 2008, said he hoped to see the perpetrators prosecuted and jailed in Pakistan, but understood that the neighbouring state \u201cwas in a lot of trouble right now and that it would be very difficult for them to nail someone for a crime that happened in India\u201d.\u201cI was very pained because on that day my own country failed to protect its citizens. There were attacks before and after [November 2008]. I think now perhaps we are better protected, but Mumbai has faced so many attacks you always feel vulnerable,\u201d said Mishra, who was in the famous Leopold\u2019s Cafe when it was attacked by the gunmen.India has repeatedly submitted its own evidence to Pakistani authorities. Rehman featured in the testimony of David Headley, a US national of Pakistani origin who joined LeT and carried out reconnaissance missions in Mumbai for the 26/11 attacks. Headley cooperated with US authorities after his arrest in 2009 and was eventually jailed in the US for 35 years. Headley was interviewed by Indian investigators while in custody and spoke at length about his relationship with Pakistani intelligence services. Rehman was also mentioned repeatedly in the testimony of Ajmal Kasab, the sole surviving gunman, who was convicted of terrorist charges and hanged in India in 2012. Kasab described Rehman handpicking the group of attackers and overseeing their training. ", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "Mumbai terror attacks", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Suspected mastermind of Mumbai terror attack released from Pakistan jail"},{"date": "2015-06-26T17:01:04Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "For decades the school perched on a barren hill overlooking the lush fields of the Chitral valley has borne the name of Geoffrey Langlands, the revered former British army officer who dedicated his twilight years to running a school in one of Pakistan\u2019s most remote communities.But 25 years after the legendary Englishman took over as principal in this far-flung corner of the Hindu Kush, many local people want nothing more to do with the 97-year-old.Parents and teachers are furious with Langlands after he came roaring out of retirement this month to try to depose his successor, a British writer called Carey Schofield, whom they credit with turning round a failing school.\u201cWhatever he did for the institution is now disgraced,\u201d said Syed Taufeeq Jan, a retired professor whose grandson attends the school, originally known as the Sayurj public school. \u201cOur demand now is it should be changed back to its former name.\u201dExpunging the major\u2019s name from the Langlands school and college would be a sad coda to the career of a man who first came to British India in 1944 and never left the subcontinent. His well-publicised biography includes time serving in the Pakistani army, kidnap by Waziri tribesmen during a stint running a school on the lawless frontier with Afghanistan, and the education of many of the country\u2019s future rulers at Aitchison college, a grand British-style public school in Lahore.It was some of Aitchison\u2019s powerful old boys who helped him stage his dramatic attempt this month to oust Schofield from the job she took up just two years ago. One of them, the powerful provincial chief minister, Pervaiz Khattak, pledged to help his old teacher over a lunch meeting in the provincial capital at which Langlands said Schofield was ruining his legacy.Langlands urged another former pupil, the interior minister Chaudhry Nisar, not to renew Schofield\u2019s visa. The minister, who is currently engaged in a crackdown on foreign aid workers, \u201cdid not need much encouragement\u201d, Langlands said.Langlands then flew from his retirement home in Lahore to Chitral on 15 June and launched a power grab resembling one of the military coups that have plagued the country. Brandishing documents signed in his own name, he claimed to be the \u201cowner and founder\u201d of the college with the authority to reappoint himself as principal, sack the governors, declare himself chairman of the board and lay claim to the control of the school bank account.Parents were horrified to hear he had dismissed Schofield and reappointed seven teachers she had dismissed. Bashir Hussain Azad, a parent, said: \u201cMy son and daughter say that if Madame Carey is not here, they should be withdrawn and shifted to another school, and I agree with them.\u201dNearly 200 parents and all of the school\u2019s staff have signed petitions calling for the orders to be ignored and for Schofield, who is currently in London waiting for a new visa, to be allowed to return to her job. They say the elderly man was manipulated by a group of aggrieved former teachers who travelled to Lahore to lobby against Schofield earlier in the year.Abdullah, the former vice-principal who leads the group, said of Schofield: \u201cShe left no stone unturned in defaming the great work of Major Langlands and treating loyal teachers who had devoted their lives to this school with contempt.\u201d But current teachers have nothing but praise for a woman they say transformed a school that had lost its way under an increasingly frail principal who had suffered at least one stroke in his final years in Chitral.They say he was unable to control his staff, many of whom allegedly rarely bothered to take lessons. Students were said to have skipped school entirely or to have left classes to smoke hashish in a nearby gully, nicknamed \u201cTora Bora\u201d after the cave system in Afghanistan where Osama bin Laden once hid.\u201cThe school was nearly on the verge of collapse,\u201d said Sher Haider Khan, the director of studies. \u201cIt was financially insecure and discipline was terrible.\u201dFew signs remain of the school\u2019s alleged decline, save for graffiti that completely covers the ceilings of some classrooms and a patch of wall on a nearby building that laments: \u201cWe hate our life without Tora Bora.\u201dStaff credit Schofield with stamping out truancy and repairing the school\u2019s parlous finances. Haider said teachers were no longer going for months without their once near subsistence-level salaries and had responded well to more demanding standards.Schofield said a clash with a man she describes as a \u201cderanged legend\u201d was \u201csort of inevitable\u201d given the changes that were needed and his habit of constantly phoning up the teachers.\u201cThe school he created was a scandal,\u201d she said. \u201cEverybody assumed that as an army officer and an Englishman they would be getting all the things they were expecting \u2013 discipline, order, probity. But they were never there.\u201dShe said Langlands had been unable to accept that anyone other than he could run the school and had been stung by her reports to the board of a school endowment trust on which he sits.\u201cThe amazing thing is he how bloody cunning he is,\u201d she said. \u201cHe is supposed to be desperately frail, sitting in quiet seclusion, but actually he was up to all kinds of evil and schemes to undermine me.\u201dSchofield, the author of a book on the Pakistani army, is only the latest in a long line of adventurous Brits who have worked at a school that now educates 900 girls and boys on four separate sites. \u201cWe deliberately tried to recruit British tourists to come and help us set up the school,\u201d said Javed Majid, who founded the original primary school when he served as district commissioner in the late 1980s.Few highly qualified Pakistanis from outside Chitral were interested in moving to the former princely state that had always been somewhat removed from the rest of the country, Majid said, so he turned to buccaneering Brits attracted by the romance of the frontier region with Afghanistan.Only two small aircraft visit the town each week and heavy snowfall can make the full day\u2019s drive to the capital, Islamabad, impossible in winter. To help raise the status of an underdeveloped part of the country, all lessons are exclusively in English, still the essential language of the professional and government elite.\u201cIt used to be said Chitral was a good place only to find servants, not professionals. That was the stature of Chitral back then, but now the valley is producing engineers and doctors,\u201d Majid said. The school greatly expanded after Langlands took over in 1988, in large part due to funds he raised through his powerful connections.Speaking by phone from his retirement home in the grounds of Aitchison college, Langlands claimed Schofield\u2019s handling of school finances had forced him to act. \u201cShe was spending a lot of money very freely,\u201d he said. \u201cI was an orphan and had no money in my upbringing so I have been very careful about handling money, from birth to my present age of 97.\u201dLanglands insists he had the legal authority to seize control \u201cbecause the school has my name to it\u201d, something his detractors and the board of governors say is nonsense.\u201cFor a nearly 100-year-old man to come and announce he has sacked the principle at a stroke of a pen is totally extraordinary,\u201d said Zafar Hayat, a lawyer and parent of children at the school. \u201cHe is neither the founder nor owner of the school and this act has no sanctity in law.\u201dAmin Ul Haq, the district commissioner, who assisted Langlands on his recent swoop on Chitral, has been stung by the backlash from students, who held a demonstration outside his office. He now says the school remains under the charge of Schofield but that the provincial education chief will soon visit to decide \u201cthe future course of action\u201d.Siraj Ul-Mulk, a school governor and member of Chitral\u2019s former royal family, said the major\u2019s once-sainted reputation in the valley had been ruined.\u201cThe saddest thing is he is destroying his own legacy,\u201d he said. \u201cI don\u2019t blame him because he doesn\u2019t know what he is doing.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Education", "UK news"], "title": "Legendary Englishman in row over fate of Pakistan school that bears his name"},{"date": "2015-06-11T23:01:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Villages in the foothills of the Hindu Kush mountain range in northern Pakistan are beautiful, dangerous and remote. Close to the Afghan border and far beyond the reach of aid groups and governments, they have long been deprived of technology, ravaged by conflict, and devastated by earthquakes and floods.But by harnessing the small glacier-meltwater rivers that drop steeply off the soaring mountains, one Pakistani non-profit group is said to be laying the foundations for future peace and prosperity \u2013 and bringing hope to some of South Asia\u2019s most marginalised and isolated people. Since it started work in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region 11 years ago, the Sarhad Rural Support Programme (SRSP) has constructed 189 village micro-hydro schemes and brought power to around 365,000 people in the area, says its director, Masood Ul-Mulk. In two more years, he says, an additional 300,000 people could have power.\u201cMany communities have been using candles. Electricity means refrigerators in hospitals and schools, and telephones. It transforms lives. When we brought light to one village, one old lady said to me, \u2018Son, you have just added 15 years to my life,\u2019\u201d he said.People used to leave the villages as their studies suffered without electricity. If their needs are met, why leave?\u201cWe do not see ourselves as energy generators but as an organisation that gives hope to people who have been devastated by conflict and floods. Electricity is a way to harmonise and bring communities together. Providing light is just the beginning of the process of building up communities. The education, energy and social programmes all bring people a feeling of success and achievement.\u201dHazrat Gul, from the Swat region, said that before the hydro schemes, young people were leaving the villages in droves. \u201cWe used to burn wood, candles and lanterns to get light. Now children complete their homework and people have access to the internet and mobile phones can be charged. People used to leave the village as their studies suffered without electricity. When all their needs are met at home, why would they leave?\u201dBut SRSP\u2019s work takes place amid sporadic clan and ethnic conflicts that can displace people from the local communities. The presence of groups of Taliban and tribal militants residing in the area has led to continual tensions.\u201cThese are very complex environments that are not easy to decipher from a distance. People can have many identities. You can have a national, ethnic, geographical or village identity,\u201d says Ul-Mulk.The conflict derives partly from the traditional isolation and marginalisation of the area, he says. \u201cOne thing that feeds into conflict is deprivation. There is conflict in all the mountain regions of Nepal, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Why? One reason is that they are all marginalised and deprived.\u201dOn Thursday evening, SRSP won a prestigious Ashden international award for its work on improving access to sustainable energy.Martin Wright, a judge for Ashden who visited the area this year, was impressed by how electricity was spurring development in such an idyllic location. \u201cPicture snow-capped mountains rising up out of swaths of pine forest like something out of a fairy tale \u2026 Deep green valleys, planted out with spring wheat, full of apricot and apple blossom, rushing, tumbling streams; wider, flowing rivers \u2013 and spring flowers bursting from the melting snow,\u201d said Wright.\u201cSRSP is demonstrating the wonderful chain reaction that results from bringing modern power to a community for the first time. As well as providing light at night, its micro-hydro plants are enabling businesses to thrive, health clinics to operate fully and bringing 21st-century communications and education facilities to one of the most challenging parts of Asia,\u201d Wright said.\u201cPeople are thinking up new ways to use the power. Olive trees grow wild in Swat, and now people are harvesting and pressing the olives for sale. They can sell more now because they can contact markets with their phones and sometimes the internet, all of which is opening up new opportunities.\u201cThe most unexpected thing I saw \u2013 up in a remote valley in Chitral \u2013 was a microwave oven. Some people had electric water heaters and irons as well. So there was a real sense of bringing home comforts \u2013 all through sustainable electricity \u2013 to distant areas. And that means people might be more likely to stay there.\u201d", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Hydropower", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Sustainable development", "Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan: 'Son, you brought electricity to the village and added 15 years to my life'"},{"date": "2015-06-05T13:35:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistani officials confirmed on Friday that only two men have been convicted for the attempted killing of the education activist Malala Yousafzai, not 10 as lawyers from her home region of Swat had initially claimed.Although 10 men stood trial, only two were jailed for their role in shooting the Nobel laureate as she sat in a school bus in October 2012.In April this year, members of the legal community in Mingora, the capital of Swat, claimed all 10 had been sentenced to 25-year jail terms \u2013 a claim that garnered positive global headlines for a country that has long struggled against Islamist militancy.At the time, one army official in Swat, who spoke anonymously to the Guardian, contradicted the claims by several lawyers, insisting only two men had been convicted.Officials say the lawyers who spread the claim had not been inside the secretive, military-run court at the time of the hearing and had simply assumed all of the suspects had been jailed.Neither the army nor the government made any attempt to correct the public record at the time.The army has played a major role in the security of Swat ever since a military operation was launched in 2009 to roll back a Taliban takeover of the valley.On Friday, an army officer said the military believed there had been enough evidence to convict all of the men, but eight of them were acquitted because of what he called the longstanding weaknesses of Pakistan\u2019s judicial system.He said witnesses were intimidated into not giving evidence and the court dropped many of the charges against them, including the plot to kill Yousafzai.The officer strongly denied claims made by the Daily Mirror that any of the men had been released. He said they were still being held and would be brought back to court at a later date after a fresh case had been built against them.The 10 men arrested in September last year, in an operation involving multiple security agencies, were accused of being part of a group tasked by Pakistani Taliban leader Mullah Fazlullah with killing a series of high-profile people, including Yousafzai.Court papers further contradict information given in April about the men who were convicted, neither of whom were thought at the time to be the actual culprits of the attempted murder.But the judgment said the two convicted men had approached the minivan in which Yousafzai was sitting with her classmates, before one opened fire on her.The teenager survived the gunshot to her head after undergoing an emergency operation in Pakistan and later being moved to the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Birmingham.In October last year, she became the youngest winner of a Nobel peace prize for her work campaigning for the right of children to education.", "tags": ["Malala Yousafzai", "Pakistan"], "title": "Pakistan says only two convicted for attempted murder of Malala Yousafzai"},{"date": "2015-09-24T14:59:48Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Only 500,000 Pakistanis filed a tax return and paid income tax last year. This is disastrous for the economy. With no sustainable revenue, public debt is spiralling out of control. Despite a robust and thriving private sector, Pakistan is still one of the world\u2019s poorest countries; 30% of children are chronically malnourished.Almost half of government revenue is used to pay debt, which leaves little left for development. Pakistan needs to get better at collecting taxes. Why do so few people pay tax? A public survey by Adam Smith International reveals serious public grievances: people think their money will be misused, or that they should not pay taxes when elites, including politicians, dodge payment. The current tax system is complex, non-transparent and inefficient. Put simply, many people avoid paying tax because the system allows it; others feel they are already taxed a lot on things like fuel and electricity.The good news is people are willing to pay; but not to a flawed system. The bad news is reform efforts have either failed, or been short-lived. Political blockages have slowed down reform efforts and people are disengaged and frustrated. There needs to be greater public demand for a better, more equitable tax system. Advocacy group Research and Advocacy for the Advancement of Allied Reforms (Raftaar) has launched its first campaign that alerts Pakistanis to their role in solving the tax crisis. It engages the public by explaining the linkages between revenue collection and service delivery. Through increased public awareness and advocacy from policy-makers, the group is pushing the government to be accountable for increasing revenue and providing services. The group, funded by the UK\u2019s department for international development and facilitated by Adam Smith International, is advocating for a series of reforms. Currently, there are formal loopholes which allow tax exemptions in certain sectors; this is often politically motivated and leads to significant revenue losses. Raftaar is lobbying for parliamentarians to lead by example and publicly pledge to comply with their tax obligations and reduce unnecessary tax exemptions. It is also putting pressure on the government to remove duties on basic foods items, like wheat and rice. Reducing the price of such items will help lower the prevalence of chronic malnutrition. This is the kind of sustainable development Pakistan needs. To carry out these reforms, the government also needs to improve its legislative, policy and administrative capacity, at both the Federal and provincial level. Provincial reform is essential since revenue collection is decentralised and provinces have a mandate to collect more taxes, namely sales tax on services.Pakistan\u2019s economy depends on it. Its public debt has increased nearly threefold in seven years and public services are severely lacking. Unless equitable and transparent tax collection is prioritised, development will never be sustainable.Content on this page is paid for and provided by Adam Smith International, a sponsor of the Guardian Global Development Professionals Network", "tags": ["Adam Smith International partner zone"], "title": "Paying up in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-09-24T14:59:48Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Only 500,000 Pakistanis filed a tax return and paid income tax last year. This is disastrous for the economy. With no sustainable revenue, public debt is spiralling out of control. Despite a robust and thriving private sector, Pakistan is still one of the world\u2019s poorest countries; 30% of children are chronically malnourished.Almost half of government revenue is used to pay debt, which leaves little left for development. Pakistan needs to get better at collecting taxes. Why do so few people pay tax? A public survey by Adam Smith International reveals serious public grievances: people think their money will be misused, or that they should not pay taxes when elites, including politicians, dodge payment. The current tax system is complex, non-transparent and inefficient. Put simply, many people avoid paying tax because the system allows it; others feel they are already taxed a lot on things like fuel and electricity.The good news is people are willing to pay; but not to a flawed system. The bad news is reform efforts have either failed, or been short-lived. Political blockages have slowed down reform efforts and people are disengaged and frustrated. There needs to be greater public demand for a better, more equitable tax system. Advocacy group Research and Advocacy for the Advancement of Allied Reforms (Raftaar) has launched its first campaign that alerts Pakistanis to their role in solving the tax crisis. It engages the public by explaining the linkages between revenue collection and service delivery. Through increased public awareness and advocacy from policy-makers, the group is pushing the government to be accountable for increasing revenue and providing services. The group, funded by the UK\u2019s department for international development and facilitated by Adam Smith International, is advocating for a series of reforms. Currently, there are formal loopholes which allow tax exemptions in certain sectors; this is often politically motivated and leads to significant revenue losses. Raftaar is lobbying for parliamentarians to lead by example and publicly pledge to comply with their tax obligations and reduce unnecessary tax exemptions. It is also putting pressure on the government to remove duties on basic foods items, like wheat and rice. Reducing the price of such items will help lower the prevalence of chronic malnutrition. This is the kind of sustainable development Pakistan needs. To carry out these reforms, the government also needs to improve its legislative, policy and administrative capacity, at both the Federal and provincial level. Provincial reform is essential since revenue collection is decentralised and provinces have a mandate to collect more taxes, namely sales tax on services.Pakistan\u2019s economy depends on it. Its public debt has increased nearly threefold in seven years and public services are severely lacking. Unless equitable and transparent tax collection is prioritised, development will never be sustainable.Content on this page is paid for and provided by Adam Smith International, a sponsor of the Guardian Global Development Professionals Network", "tags": ["Adam Smith International partner zone"], "title": "Paying up in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-09-14T12:02:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Hamid Mir knew one of the guests on his nightly television show had made a mistake the moment he blurted out the name of the country\u2019s army chief without due deference.\u201cHe just said \u2018Raheel Sharif, Raheel Sharif\u2019 without calling him general,\u201d Mir says of a recent episode of his influential Capital Talk programme. \u201cI knew immediately the words came out it would be cut.\u201dAt a time of intense pressure on the media to cooperate with an army public relations campaign that is burnishing the image of General Sharif, channels routinely edit out or drop the sound on the mildest criticism of the military.Even the country\u2019s only Nobel peace prize winner, the schoolgirl activist Malala Yousafzai, was briefly silenced in early August when she said in an interview with Aaj TV that the prime minister had told her he was unable to spend more money on education because of pressure to fund military operations.Mir fears that behind the pressure for self-censorship lurk \u201canti-democratic forces deliberately trying to undermine political institutions by giving more importance to the army.\u201dLeading journalists claim to have received indirect threats from army officials who warn them they are being targeted by terrorists or that their coverage is raising suspicions they have been compromised by the Indian intelligence service.There is little doubt the military has rehabilitated its public reputation after the damage done to its popularity in the final years of the rule of Pervez Musharraf, the coup-making general forced from power in 2007.Media workers say the current unbridled support for the army comes from the need to support the institution at a time when soldiers are dying in a war against Islamist militants. But it also reflects draconian new legal requirements placed on broadcasters. Last month the information ministry issued a sweeping code of conduct that made it a condition of a broadcaster\u2019s licence to not air material that \u201ccontains aspersions against the judiciary or armed forces\u201d.Television stations were also required to have a \u201cdelaying mechanism\u201d on live programmes to enforce the restrictions. Related: Geo TV's face-off with ISI spy agency \u2013 a subplot of a larger tussle in Pakistan Last week the Lahore high court ordered Pemra, the country\u2019s media regulator, to ban all coverage of the speeches and even photographs of the leader of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), the country\u2019s fourth biggest political party, which is reeling from an army-led crackdown in Karachi.Altaf Hussain, who runs the MQM from self-exile in London, was accused in court of committing treason for issuing an incendiary speech in which he lambasted the army and hinted top generals were involved in corruption.Most media companies need little encouragement to stay on the right side of the army given memories of all-out war with Geo TV in April 2014. The popular channel triggered military fury when it aired accusations that the head of the army\u2019s intelligence wing had been behind the near fatal shooting of Mir, its star journalist. Cable television providers were encouraged to drop Geo from their lineup while advertisers deserted the channel.Mir said his bosses tell him to avoid controversial stories because it will \u201cmake trouble for colleagues\u201d. \u201cThey say mysterious people call the advertisers and tell them to stop advertising with Geo and then we won\u2019t be able to pay salaries on time,\u201d he said.Even to suggest Pakistan\u2019s army, with its long history of coups and indirect rule of the country, should stay out of politics is completely beyond the pale, said Mir.The media has given little attention in recent weeks to a supreme court investigation of well-founded allegations of corruption within the army\u2019s property empire. And there has been hardly any discussion of the slow progress in sending home the huge numbers of people displaced by operations against the Taliban in North Waziristan.While the media enthusiastically covers stories about corruption and incompetence among civilian politicians, General Sharif receives fawning coverage. Last week Kamran Khan, one of the country\u2019s most famous journalists, devoted much of his nightly show on Dunya News to what he claimed was a growing public clamour for General Sharif to be given a second term rather than be allowed to retire in November next year.Pakistani journalists credit the general in charge of the army\u2019s public relations department, Asim Bajwa, with crafting an image of Sharif as a dynamic general who was not afraid to take on the Pakistani Taliban.Footage of Sharif visiting frontline troops or receiving foreign leaders in his office regularly push the country\u2019s civilian leadership off the news bulletins. Related: The Hamid Mir case: 'In Pakistan, they used to censor journalists \u2013 now they shoot us' General Bajwa said his job was simply to \u201cshare genuine information with the people\u201d.\u201cWe are not asking the media to do this or that, or to censor anything,\u201d he said. \u201cPeople appreciate the work of the army because the reality on the ground is improving.\u201dAbbas Nasir, a former editor of Dawn, an English-language daily paper, said it was unlikely General Sharif would want a second term given the anger it would be likely to cause within the army. But overconfidence could yet lead to the repeat of the disastrous mistakes of the past.\u201cMy worry is this completely one-sided praise, if it gets to the head of some military leaders, may lead us back to mis-adventurism, whether that\u2019s a march on Islamabad or some sort of an attack on India,\u201d he said. \u201cIf you are constantly told you are great, sooner or later you will believe it.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Freedom of speech", "Journalist safety", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Pakistan press freedom under pressure from army"},{"date": "2015-09-24T14:59:48Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Only 500,000 Pakistanis filed a tax return and paid income tax last year. This is disastrous for the economy. With no sustainable revenue, public debt is spiralling out of control. Despite a robust and thriving private sector, Pakistan is still one of the world\u2019s poorest countries; 30% of children are chronically malnourished.Almost half of government revenue is used to pay debt, which leaves little left for development. Pakistan needs to get better at collecting taxes. Why do so few people pay tax? A public survey by Adam Smith International reveals serious public grievances: people think their money will be misused, or that they should not pay taxes when elites, including politicians, dodge payment. The current tax system is complex, non-transparent and inefficient. Put simply, many people avoid paying tax because the system allows it; others feel they are already taxed a lot on things like fuel and electricity.The good news is people are willing to pay; but not to a flawed system. The bad news is reform efforts have either failed, or been short-lived. Political blockages have slowed down reform efforts and people are disengaged and frustrated. There needs to be greater public demand for a better, more equitable tax system. Advocacy group Research and Advocacy for the Advancement of Allied Reforms (Raftaar) has launched its first campaign that alerts Pakistanis to their role in solving the tax crisis. It engages the public by explaining the linkages between revenue collection and service delivery. Through increased public awareness and advocacy from policy-makers, the group is pushing the government to be accountable for increasing revenue and providing services. The group, funded by the UK\u2019s department for international development and facilitated by Adam Smith International, is advocating for a series of reforms. Currently, there are formal loopholes which allow tax exemptions in certain sectors; this is often politically motivated and leads to significant revenue losses. Raftaar is lobbying for parliamentarians to lead by example and publicly pledge to comply with their tax obligations and reduce unnecessary tax exemptions. It is also putting pressure on the government to remove duties on basic foods items, like wheat and rice. Reducing the price of such items will help lower the prevalence of chronic malnutrition. This is the kind of sustainable development Pakistan needs. To carry out these reforms, the government also needs to improve its legislative, policy and administrative capacity, at both the Federal and provincial level. Provincial reform is essential since revenue collection is decentralised and provinces have a mandate to collect more taxes, namely sales tax on services.Pakistan\u2019s economy depends on it. Its public debt has increased nearly threefold in seven years and public services are severely lacking. Unless equitable and transparent tax collection is prioritised, development will never be sustainable.Content on this page is paid for and provided by Adam Smith International, a sponsor of the Guardian Global Development Professionals Network", "tags": ["Adam Smith International partner zone"], "title": "Paying up in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-09-14T12:02:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Hamid Mir knew one of the guests on his nightly television show had made a mistake the moment he blurted out the name of the country\u2019s army chief without due deference.\u201cHe just said \u2018Raheel Sharif, Raheel Sharif\u2019 without calling him general,\u201d Mir says of a recent episode of his influential Capital Talk programme. \u201cI knew immediately the words came out it would be cut.\u201dAt a time of intense pressure on the media to cooperate with an army public relations campaign that is burnishing the image of General Sharif, channels routinely edit out or drop the sound on the mildest criticism of the military.Even the country\u2019s only Nobel peace prize winner, the schoolgirl activist Malala Yousafzai, was briefly silenced in early August when she said in an interview with Aaj TV that the prime minister had told her he was unable to spend more money on education because of pressure to fund military operations.Mir fears that behind the pressure for self-censorship lurk \u201canti-democratic forces deliberately trying to undermine political institutions by giving more importance to the army.\u201dLeading journalists claim to have received indirect threats from army officials who warn them they are being targeted by terrorists or that their coverage is raising suspicions they have been compromised by the Indian intelligence service.There is little doubt the military has rehabilitated its public reputation after the damage done to its popularity in the final years of the rule of Pervez Musharraf, the coup-making general forced from power in 2007.Media workers say the current unbridled support for the army comes from the need to support the institution at a time when soldiers are dying in a war against Islamist militants. But it also reflects draconian new legal requirements placed on broadcasters. Last month the information ministry issued a sweeping code of conduct that made it a condition of a broadcaster\u2019s licence to not air material that \u201ccontains aspersions against the judiciary or armed forces\u201d.Television stations were also required to have a \u201cdelaying mechanism\u201d on live programmes to enforce the restrictions. Related: Geo TV's face-off with ISI spy agency \u2013 a subplot of a larger tussle in Pakistan Last week the Lahore high court ordered Pemra, the country\u2019s media regulator, to ban all coverage of the speeches and even photographs of the leader of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), the country\u2019s fourth biggest political party, which is reeling from an army-led crackdown in Karachi.Altaf Hussain, who runs the MQM from self-exile in London, was accused in court of committing treason for issuing an incendiary speech in which he lambasted the army and hinted top generals were involved in corruption.Most media companies need little encouragement to stay on the right side of the army given memories of all-out war with Geo TV in April 2014. The popular channel triggered military fury when it aired accusations that the head of the army\u2019s intelligence wing had been behind the near fatal shooting of Mir, its star journalist. Cable television providers were encouraged to drop Geo from their lineup while advertisers deserted the channel.Mir said his bosses tell him to avoid controversial stories because it will \u201cmake trouble for colleagues\u201d. \u201cThey say mysterious people call the advertisers and tell them to stop advertising with Geo and then we won\u2019t be able to pay salaries on time,\u201d he said.Even to suggest Pakistan\u2019s army, with its long history of coups and indirect rule of the country, should stay out of politics is completely beyond the pale, said Mir.The media has given little attention in recent weeks to a supreme court investigation of well-founded allegations of corruption within the army\u2019s property empire. And there has been hardly any discussion of the slow progress in sending home the huge numbers of people displaced by operations against the Taliban in North Waziristan.While the media enthusiastically covers stories about corruption and incompetence among civilian politicians, General Sharif receives fawning coverage. Last week Kamran Khan, one of the country\u2019s most famous journalists, devoted much of his nightly show on Dunya News to what he claimed was a growing public clamour for General Sharif to be given a second term rather than be allowed to retire in November next year.Pakistani journalists credit the general in charge of the army\u2019s public relations department, Asim Bajwa, with crafting an image of Sharif as a dynamic general who was not afraid to take on the Pakistani Taliban.Footage of Sharif visiting frontline troops or receiving foreign leaders in his office regularly push the country\u2019s civilian leadership off the news bulletins. Related: The Hamid Mir case: 'In Pakistan, they used to censor journalists \u2013 now they shoot us' General Bajwa said his job was simply to \u201cshare genuine information with the people\u201d.\u201cWe are not asking the media to do this or that, or to censor anything,\u201d he said. \u201cPeople appreciate the work of the army because the reality on the ground is improving.\u201dAbbas Nasir, a former editor of Dawn, an English-language daily paper, said it was unlikely General Sharif would want a second term given the anger it would be likely to cause within the army. But overconfidence could yet lead to the repeat of the disastrous mistakes of the past.\u201cMy worry is this completely one-sided praise, if it gets to the head of some military leaders, may lead us back to mis-adventurism, whether that\u2019s a march on Islamabad or some sort of an attack on India,\u201d he said. \u201cIf you are constantly told you are great, sooner or later you will believe it.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Freedom of speech", "Journalist safety", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Pakistan press freedom under pressure from army"},{"date": "2015-07-27T09:06:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has banned BlackBerry\u2019s enterprise server and its internet and messaging services \u201cfor security reasons\u201d in a crackdown on privacy.Mobile phone operators were told by the Pakistan telecommunication authority on Friday that the BlackBerry services must be shut down by the start of December.BlackBerry uses strong encryption \u2013 part of its appeal to businesses and users \u2013 which prevents law enforcement and intelligence agencies from intercepting messages and snooping on user activity.\u201cPTA has issued directions to local mobile phone operators to close BlackBerry Enterprise Services from Nov. 30 on security reasons,\u201d said a PTA spokesperson.BlackBerry operates servers through which all internet traffic destined for its smartphones and tablets flows. The servers handle email, messaging, browsing and other communications services, encrypting the data and ensuring greater privacy.A recent report by Privacy International claims Pakistan\u2019s military intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), is seeking to dramatically expand its ability to intercept communications.Privacy International said the ISI had few legal checks on its surveillance practices.\u201cPakistan\u2019s intelligence agencies have abused their communications surveillance powers, including by spying on opposition politicians and supreme court judges. Widespread internet monitoring and censorship has also been used to target journalists, lawyers and activists,\u201d the report said.BlackBerry has faced similar problems in the past in India, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia and Indonesia.In 2010, BlackBerry services were banned within the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Bans were lifted in some states but with tightened restrictions. Prime minister David Cameron also considered banning BlackBerry\u2019s messaging services within the UK during the 2011 riots.BlackBerry said: \u201cBlackBerry provides the world\u2019s most secure communications platform to government, military and enterprise customers. Protecting that security is paramount to our mission. While we recognise the need to cooperate with lawful government investigative requests of criminal activity, we have never permitted wholesale access to our BES servers.\u201d \u2022 BlackBerry left on the line as UK users continue to hang up\u2022 BlackBerry Classic review: the phone diehards have been waiting for", "tags": ["BlackBerry corporation", "BlackBerry", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "Pakistan", "World news", "Privacy", "Surveillance", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan bans BlackBerry services  in privacy crackdown"},{"date": "2015-09-24T14:59:48Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Only 500,000 Pakistanis filed a tax return and paid income tax last year. This is disastrous for the economy. With no sustainable revenue, public debt is spiralling out of control. Despite a robust and thriving private sector, Pakistan is still one of the world\u2019s poorest countries; 30% of children are chronically malnourished.Almost half of government revenue is used to pay debt, which leaves little left for development. Pakistan needs to get better at collecting taxes. Why do so few people pay tax? A public survey by Adam Smith International reveals serious public grievances: people think their money will be misused, or that they should not pay taxes when elites, including politicians, dodge payment. The current tax system is complex, non-transparent and inefficient. Put simply, many people avoid paying tax because the system allows it; others feel they are already taxed a lot on things like fuel and electricity.The good news is people are willing to pay; but not to a flawed system. The bad news is reform efforts have either failed, or been short-lived. Political blockages have slowed down reform efforts and people are disengaged and frustrated. There needs to be greater public demand for a better, more equitable tax system. Advocacy group Research and Advocacy for the Advancement of Allied Reforms (Raftaar) has launched its first campaign that alerts Pakistanis to their role in solving the tax crisis. It engages the public by explaining the linkages between revenue collection and service delivery. Through increased public awareness and advocacy from policy-makers, the group is pushing the government to be accountable for increasing revenue and providing services. The group, funded by the UK\u2019s department for international development and facilitated by Adam Smith International, is advocating for a series of reforms. Currently, there are formal loopholes which allow tax exemptions in certain sectors; this is often politically motivated and leads to significant revenue losses. Raftaar is lobbying for parliamentarians to lead by example and publicly pledge to comply with their tax obligations and reduce unnecessary tax exemptions. It is also putting pressure on the government to remove duties on basic foods items, like wheat and rice. Reducing the price of such items will help lower the prevalence of chronic malnutrition. This is the kind of sustainable development Pakistan needs. To carry out these reforms, the government also needs to improve its legislative, policy and administrative capacity, at both the Federal and provincial level. Provincial reform is essential since revenue collection is decentralised and provinces have a mandate to collect more taxes, namely sales tax on services.Pakistan\u2019s economy depends on it. Its public debt has increased nearly threefold in seven years and public services are severely lacking. Unless equitable and transparent tax collection is prioritised, development will never be sustainable.Content on this page is paid for and provided by Adam Smith International, a sponsor of the Guardian Global Development Professionals Network", "tags": ["Adam Smith International partner zone"], "title": "Paying up in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-09-14T12:02:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Hamid Mir knew one of the guests on his nightly television show had made a mistake the moment he blurted out the name of the country\u2019s army chief without due deference.\u201cHe just said \u2018Raheel Sharif, Raheel Sharif\u2019 without calling him general,\u201d Mir says of a recent episode of his influential Capital Talk programme. \u201cI knew immediately the words came out it would be cut.\u201dAt a time of intense pressure on the media to cooperate with an army public relations campaign that is burnishing the image of General Sharif, channels routinely edit out or drop the sound on the mildest criticism of the military.Even the country\u2019s only Nobel peace prize winner, the schoolgirl activist Malala Yousafzai, was briefly silenced in early August when she said in an interview with Aaj TV that the prime minister had told her he was unable to spend more money on education because of pressure to fund military operations.Mir fears that behind the pressure for self-censorship lurk \u201canti-democratic forces deliberately trying to undermine political institutions by giving more importance to the army.\u201dLeading journalists claim to have received indirect threats from army officials who warn them they are being targeted by terrorists or that their coverage is raising suspicions they have been compromised by the Indian intelligence service.There is little doubt the military has rehabilitated its public reputation after the damage done to its popularity in the final years of the rule of Pervez Musharraf, the coup-making general forced from power in 2007.Media workers say the current unbridled support for the army comes from the need to support the institution at a time when soldiers are dying in a war against Islamist militants. But it also reflects draconian new legal requirements placed on broadcasters. Last month the information ministry issued a sweeping code of conduct that made it a condition of a broadcaster\u2019s licence to not air material that \u201ccontains aspersions against the judiciary or armed forces\u201d.Television stations were also required to have a \u201cdelaying mechanism\u201d on live programmes to enforce the restrictions. Related: Geo TV's face-off with ISI spy agency \u2013 a subplot of a larger tussle in Pakistan Last week the Lahore high court ordered Pemra, the country\u2019s media regulator, to ban all coverage of the speeches and even photographs of the leader of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), the country\u2019s fourth biggest political party, which is reeling from an army-led crackdown in Karachi.Altaf Hussain, who runs the MQM from self-exile in London, was accused in court of committing treason for issuing an incendiary speech in which he lambasted the army and hinted top generals were involved in corruption.Most media companies need little encouragement to stay on the right side of the army given memories of all-out war with Geo TV in April 2014. The popular channel triggered military fury when it aired accusations that the head of the army\u2019s intelligence wing had been behind the near fatal shooting of Mir, its star journalist. Cable television providers were encouraged to drop Geo from their lineup while advertisers deserted the channel.Mir said his bosses tell him to avoid controversial stories because it will \u201cmake trouble for colleagues\u201d. \u201cThey say mysterious people call the advertisers and tell them to stop advertising with Geo and then we won\u2019t be able to pay salaries on time,\u201d he said.Even to suggest Pakistan\u2019s army, with its long history of coups and indirect rule of the country, should stay out of politics is completely beyond the pale, said Mir.The media has given little attention in recent weeks to a supreme court investigation of well-founded allegations of corruption within the army\u2019s property empire. And there has been hardly any discussion of the slow progress in sending home the huge numbers of people displaced by operations against the Taliban in North Waziristan.While the media enthusiastically covers stories about corruption and incompetence among civilian politicians, General Sharif receives fawning coverage. Last week Kamran Khan, one of the country\u2019s most famous journalists, devoted much of his nightly show on Dunya News to what he claimed was a growing public clamour for General Sharif to be given a second term rather than be allowed to retire in November next year.Pakistani journalists credit the general in charge of the army\u2019s public relations department, Asim Bajwa, with crafting an image of Sharif as a dynamic general who was not afraid to take on the Pakistani Taliban.Footage of Sharif visiting frontline troops or receiving foreign leaders in his office regularly push the country\u2019s civilian leadership off the news bulletins. Related: The Hamid Mir case: 'In Pakistan, they used to censor journalists \u2013 now they shoot us' General Bajwa said his job was simply to \u201cshare genuine information with the people\u201d.\u201cWe are not asking the media to do this or that, or to censor anything,\u201d he said. \u201cPeople appreciate the work of the army because the reality on the ground is improving.\u201dAbbas Nasir, a former editor of Dawn, an English-language daily paper, said it was unlikely General Sharif would want a second term given the anger it would be likely to cause within the army. But overconfidence could yet lead to the repeat of the disastrous mistakes of the past.\u201cMy worry is this completely one-sided praise, if it gets to the head of some military leaders, may lead us back to mis-adventurism, whether that\u2019s a march on Islamabad or some sort of an attack on India,\u201d he said. \u201cIf you are constantly told you are great, sooner or later you will believe it.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Freedom of speech", "Journalist safety", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Pakistan press freedom under pressure from army"},{"date": "2015-07-27T09:06:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has banned BlackBerry\u2019s enterprise server and its internet and messaging services \u201cfor security reasons\u201d in a crackdown on privacy.Mobile phone operators were told by the Pakistan telecommunication authority on Friday that the BlackBerry services must be shut down by the start of December.BlackBerry uses strong encryption \u2013 part of its appeal to businesses and users \u2013 which prevents law enforcement and intelligence agencies from intercepting messages and snooping on user activity.\u201cPTA has issued directions to local mobile phone operators to close BlackBerry Enterprise Services from Nov. 30 on security reasons,\u201d said a PTA spokesperson.BlackBerry operates servers through which all internet traffic destined for its smartphones and tablets flows. The servers handle email, messaging, browsing and other communications services, encrypting the data and ensuring greater privacy.A recent report by Privacy International claims Pakistan\u2019s military intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), is seeking to dramatically expand its ability to intercept communications.Privacy International said the ISI had few legal checks on its surveillance practices.\u201cPakistan\u2019s intelligence agencies have abused their communications surveillance powers, including by spying on opposition politicians and supreme court judges. Widespread internet monitoring and censorship has also been used to target journalists, lawyers and activists,\u201d the report said.BlackBerry has faced similar problems in the past in India, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia and Indonesia.In 2010, BlackBerry services were banned within the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Bans were lifted in some states but with tightened restrictions. Prime minister David Cameron also considered banning BlackBerry\u2019s messaging services within the UK during the 2011 riots.BlackBerry said: \u201cBlackBerry provides the world\u2019s most secure communications platform to government, military and enterprise customers. Protecting that security is paramount to our mission. While we recognise the need to cooperate with lawful government investigative requests of criminal activity, we have never permitted wholesale access to our BES servers.\u201d \u2022 BlackBerry left on the line as UK users continue to hang up\u2022 BlackBerry Classic review: the phone diehards have been waiting for", "tags": ["BlackBerry corporation", "BlackBerry", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "Pakistan", "World news", "Privacy", "Surveillance", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan bans BlackBerry services  in privacy crackdown"},{"date": "2015-09-20T14:04:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The four helicopters trailing giant flags had passed an hour earlier; the tanks and fighter jets would come later. Now, it was the turn of a formation of sword-wielding, stamping, infantry in golden turbans to entertain the crowd packed into the grandstands halfway between the stately India Gate and the vast presidential palace in Delhi\u2019s centre.The Verma family \u2013 mother, father, son and daughter \u2013 had come from the eastern outskirts of the Indian capital to watch the show. \u201cIt was necessary to come. I am a proud Indian ... we have to remember our victories, our sacrifices. We have to remember what we can do, and what can be done. This will frighten some people and that is a good thing,\u201d said Priyaranjan Verma, 43, a finance manager for a freight firm.The \u201csome people\u201d he was referring to were the 190 million or so inhabitants of Pakistan, or at least their rulers.Sunday\u2019s parade marked the climax of a month of events in India commemorating the golden anniversary of the 1965 war with the neighbouring country. The partition of India had occurred 18 years before 1965, when the country gained independence from Britain. Pakistan and India have each claimed victory in the inconclusive 60s conflict, one of four they have fought. But over the decades both nations appear largely to have forgotten this war, with history books focusing on the more dramatic clashes of 1947, 1971 and 1999.It surprised some onlookers then when the government of Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist politician who won a landslide election last year after promising to bring economic development and make India \u201crespected\u201d, ordered a high-profile, month-long celebration of his nation\u2019s \u201cvictory\u201d in the 1965 war. The event is reported to have cost more than \u00a33m, and has included military displays in provincial towns, giant newspaper adverts, commemorative coins and stamps, as well as a team of naval personnel motorbiking 1,200 miles across India.Modi opened an exhibition in central Delhi devoted to the war, commenting that \u201cthe valour [and] sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1965 war remains etched in the memory of every Indian\u201d.The 60s conflict started when Pakistan fomented violence in the disputed Himalayan former princedom of Kashmir and ended with a UN-sponsored ceasefire followed by an exchange of captured territory. The war entailed fierce fighting, particularly between tank units, and it is thought both sides suffered more than 3,000 casualties.At the opening ceremony, Manohar Parrikar, India\u2019s defence minister, said the exhibition commemorated \u201cthe first major war that India won\u201d. He added: \u201cSome people raise the question whether India won, or was there a stalemate? Even as a nine-year-old kid I was of the firm opinion that India won hands down.\u201dSome historians\u2019 opinions differ. \u201cIt was inconclusive and that is recognised \u2026 even by those involved in the conflict. We actually gave up what little territory we seized and by no yardstick can it be claimed a victory,\u201d said Pallavi Raghavan, a specialist in relations between India and Pakistan, working at the Centre for Policy Research, in Delhi.However Dilip Hiro, a journalist and analyst, wrote in a recently published account of relations between India and Pakistan that \u201c[India] won by not losing \u2026 [Pakistan] gained nothing from a war it initiated\u201d.The war fought between the two states in 1971, however, was a conclusive defeat for Pakistan. A tentative peace process which followed a further confrontation in 1999 has been frozen since an attack in Mumbai by Pakistan-based militants in 2008. The attack in Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, targeted luxury hotels, commuters, a Jewish centre and tourist sites. There have been several intensive exchanges of artillery fire in the past year, while India continues to blame Pakistan for unrest in Kashmir.Pakistan reacted to the celebrations in India by upgrading its own annual Defence Day, which traditionally marks the 1965 war. Normally a relatively low-key affair, the ceremony held on 6 September was transformed into a big television event, with parachute drops by special forces, air displays and exhibitions of military hardware at various sites around the country.At the main ceremony, at army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the army screened video re-enactments of key battles against Islamist militants.Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief, Raheel Sharif, used the occasion to deliver a sharp warning to India that it would \u201cpay an unbearable cost\u201d if it ever resorted \u201cto any misadventure\u201d. He added: \u201cThe armed forces of Pakistan are fully capable of dealing with all types of internal and external threats, may it be conventional or sub-conventional, whether it is cold start or hot start. We are ready.\u201dHis speech was a riposte to the remarks of his opposite number, the general Dalbir Singh Suhag, who said India was ready for the \u201cswift, short, nature of future wars\u201d.India\u2019s army has long been planning for a \u201ccold start\u201d in any possible confrontation with Pakistan, which would allow it to quickly retaliate, fielding military units with little preparation and thus countering its smaller neighbour\u2019s ability to concentrate forces more rapidly.Sharif also struck a hard line on Kashmir, saying it could \u201cno longer be put on the back burner\u201d, although few foreign policy experts think Pakistan will ever gain control of the whole region.Amid the army\u2019s publicity drive there were signs of a surge of patriotism, even bellicosity, among sections of the public. A newspaper account of a lecture at Karachi University, at which the historian Akbar Zaidi questioned the popular narrative that Pakistan won the 1965 conflict, provoked a storm of anger on social media, with many alleging the newspaper was in the pocket of India.\u201cWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie [than] that Pakistan won the war,\u201d he was reported to have said. \u201cWe lost terribly in the 1965 war.\u201dRaghavan, the Indian historian, said the focus on conflicts ignored the long history of dialogue and exchange between the two nations. \u201cThe warfare has always been contained, never all-out. Each time there is an episode of violence it is followed by an episode of engagement. There is always much good will on both sides and the reasons for that are as durable as the reasons for going to war.\u201dThe sentiment was not universally shared at the parade ground in Delhi.\u201cThese are bad people but we are not frightened of them. Why should we be when we always win?\u201d said Verma, as he quickened his pace to avoid missing the motorbike display team.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "India and Pakistan loudly commemorate the war they both 'won '"},{"date": "2015-09-24T14:59:48Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Only 500,000 Pakistanis filed a tax return and paid income tax last year. This is disastrous for the economy. With no sustainable revenue, public debt is spiralling out of control. Despite a robust and thriving private sector, Pakistan is still one of the world\u2019s poorest countries; 30% of children are chronically malnourished.Almost half of government revenue is used to pay debt, which leaves little left for development. Pakistan needs to get better at collecting taxes. Why do so few people pay tax? A public survey by Adam Smith International reveals serious public grievances: people think their money will be misused, or that they should not pay taxes when elites, including politicians, dodge payment. The current tax system is complex, non-transparent and inefficient. Put simply, many people avoid paying tax because the system allows it; others feel they are already taxed a lot on things like fuel and electricity.The good news is people are willing to pay; but not to a flawed system. The bad news is reform efforts have either failed, or been short-lived. Political blockages have slowed down reform efforts and people are disengaged and frustrated. There needs to be greater public demand for a better, more equitable tax system. Advocacy group Research and Advocacy for the Advancement of Allied Reforms (Raftaar) has launched its first campaign that alerts Pakistanis to their role in solving the tax crisis. It engages the public by explaining the linkages between revenue collection and service delivery. Through increased public awareness and advocacy from policy-makers, the group is pushing the government to be accountable for increasing revenue and providing services. The group, funded by the UK\u2019s department for international development and facilitated by Adam Smith International, is advocating for a series of reforms. Currently, there are formal loopholes which allow tax exemptions in certain sectors; this is often politically motivated and leads to significant revenue losses. Raftaar is lobbying for parliamentarians to lead by example and publicly pledge to comply with their tax obligations and reduce unnecessary tax exemptions. It is also putting pressure on the government to remove duties on basic foods items, like wheat and rice. Reducing the price of such items will help lower the prevalence of chronic malnutrition. This is the kind of sustainable development Pakistan needs. To carry out these reforms, the government also needs to improve its legislative, policy and administrative capacity, at both the Federal and provincial level. Provincial reform is essential since revenue collection is decentralised and provinces have a mandate to collect more taxes, namely sales tax on services.Pakistan\u2019s economy depends on it. Its public debt has increased nearly threefold in seven years and public services are severely lacking. Unless equitable and transparent tax collection is prioritised, development will never be sustainable.Content on this page is paid for and provided by Adam Smith International, a sponsor of the Guardian Global Development Professionals Network", "tags": ["Adam Smith International partner zone"], "title": "Paying up in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-09-14T12:02:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Hamid Mir knew one of the guests on his nightly television show had made a mistake the moment he blurted out the name of the country\u2019s army chief without due deference.\u201cHe just said \u2018Raheel Sharif, Raheel Sharif\u2019 without calling him general,\u201d Mir says of a recent episode of his influential Capital Talk programme. \u201cI knew immediately the words came out it would be cut.\u201dAt a time of intense pressure on the media to cooperate with an army public relations campaign that is burnishing the image of General Sharif, channels routinely edit out or drop the sound on the mildest criticism of the military.Even the country\u2019s only Nobel peace prize winner, the schoolgirl activist Malala Yousafzai, was briefly silenced in early August when she said in an interview with Aaj TV that the prime minister had told her he was unable to spend more money on education because of pressure to fund military operations.Mir fears that behind the pressure for self-censorship lurk \u201canti-democratic forces deliberately trying to undermine political institutions by giving more importance to the army.\u201dLeading journalists claim to have received indirect threats from army officials who warn them they are being targeted by terrorists or that their coverage is raising suspicions they have been compromised by the Indian intelligence service.There is little doubt the military has rehabilitated its public reputation after the damage done to its popularity in the final years of the rule of Pervez Musharraf, the coup-making general forced from power in 2007.Media workers say the current unbridled support for the army comes from the need to support the institution at a time when soldiers are dying in a war against Islamist militants. But it also reflects draconian new legal requirements placed on broadcasters. Last month the information ministry issued a sweeping code of conduct that made it a condition of a broadcaster\u2019s licence to not air material that \u201ccontains aspersions against the judiciary or armed forces\u201d.Television stations were also required to have a \u201cdelaying mechanism\u201d on live programmes to enforce the restrictions. Related: Geo TV's face-off with ISI spy agency \u2013 a subplot of a larger tussle in Pakistan Last week the Lahore high court ordered Pemra, the country\u2019s media regulator, to ban all coverage of the speeches and even photographs of the leader of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), the country\u2019s fourth biggest political party, which is reeling from an army-led crackdown in Karachi.Altaf Hussain, who runs the MQM from self-exile in London, was accused in court of committing treason for issuing an incendiary speech in which he lambasted the army and hinted top generals were involved in corruption.Most media companies need little encouragement to stay on the right side of the army given memories of all-out war with Geo TV in April 2014. The popular channel triggered military fury when it aired accusations that the head of the army\u2019s intelligence wing had been behind the near fatal shooting of Mir, its star journalist. Cable television providers were encouraged to drop Geo from their lineup while advertisers deserted the channel.Mir said his bosses tell him to avoid controversial stories because it will \u201cmake trouble for colleagues\u201d. \u201cThey say mysterious people call the advertisers and tell them to stop advertising with Geo and then we won\u2019t be able to pay salaries on time,\u201d he said.Even to suggest Pakistan\u2019s army, with its long history of coups and indirect rule of the country, should stay out of politics is completely beyond the pale, said Mir.The media has given little attention in recent weeks to a supreme court investigation of well-founded allegations of corruption within the army\u2019s property empire. And there has been hardly any discussion of the slow progress in sending home the huge numbers of people displaced by operations against the Taliban in North Waziristan.While the media enthusiastically covers stories about corruption and incompetence among civilian politicians, General Sharif receives fawning coverage. Last week Kamran Khan, one of the country\u2019s most famous journalists, devoted much of his nightly show on Dunya News to what he claimed was a growing public clamour for General Sharif to be given a second term rather than be allowed to retire in November next year.Pakistani journalists credit the general in charge of the army\u2019s public relations department, Asim Bajwa, with crafting an image of Sharif as a dynamic general who was not afraid to take on the Pakistani Taliban.Footage of Sharif visiting frontline troops or receiving foreign leaders in his office regularly push the country\u2019s civilian leadership off the news bulletins. Related: The Hamid Mir case: 'In Pakistan, they used to censor journalists \u2013 now they shoot us' General Bajwa said his job was simply to \u201cshare genuine information with the people\u201d.\u201cWe are not asking the media to do this or that, or to censor anything,\u201d he said. \u201cPeople appreciate the work of the army because the reality on the ground is improving.\u201dAbbas Nasir, a former editor of Dawn, an English-language daily paper, said it was unlikely General Sharif would want a second term given the anger it would be likely to cause within the army. But overconfidence could yet lead to the repeat of the disastrous mistakes of the past.\u201cMy worry is this completely one-sided praise, if it gets to the head of some military leaders, may lead us back to mis-adventurism, whether that\u2019s a march on Islamabad or some sort of an attack on India,\u201d he said. \u201cIf you are constantly told you are great, sooner or later you will believe it.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Freedom of speech", "Journalist safety", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Pakistan press freedom under pressure from army"},{"date": "2015-07-27T09:06:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has banned BlackBerry\u2019s enterprise server and its internet and messaging services \u201cfor security reasons\u201d in a crackdown on privacy.Mobile phone operators were told by the Pakistan telecommunication authority on Friday that the BlackBerry services must be shut down by the start of December.BlackBerry uses strong encryption \u2013 part of its appeal to businesses and users \u2013 which prevents law enforcement and intelligence agencies from intercepting messages and snooping on user activity.\u201cPTA has issued directions to local mobile phone operators to close BlackBerry Enterprise Services from Nov. 30 on security reasons,\u201d said a PTA spokesperson.BlackBerry operates servers through which all internet traffic destined for its smartphones and tablets flows. The servers handle email, messaging, browsing and other communications services, encrypting the data and ensuring greater privacy.A recent report by Privacy International claims Pakistan\u2019s military intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), is seeking to dramatically expand its ability to intercept communications.Privacy International said the ISI had few legal checks on its surveillance practices.\u201cPakistan\u2019s intelligence agencies have abused their communications surveillance powers, including by spying on opposition politicians and supreme court judges. Widespread internet monitoring and censorship has also been used to target journalists, lawyers and activists,\u201d the report said.BlackBerry has faced similar problems in the past in India, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia and Indonesia.In 2010, BlackBerry services were banned within the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Bans were lifted in some states but with tightened restrictions. Prime minister David Cameron also considered banning BlackBerry\u2019s messaging services within the UK during the 2011 riots.BlackBerry said: \u201cBlackBerry provides the world\u2019s most secure communications platform to government, military and enterprise customers. Protecting that security is paramount to our mission. While we recognise the need to cooperate with lawful government investigative requests of criminal activity, we have never permitted wholesale access to our BES servers.\u201d \u2022 BlackBerry left on the line as UK users continue to hang up\u2022 BlackBerry Classic review: the phone diehards have been waiting for", "tags": ["BlackBerry corporation", "BlackBerry", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "Pakistan", "World news", "Privacy", "Surveillance", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan bans BlackBerry services  in privacy crackdown"},{"date": "2015-09-20T14:04:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The four helicopters trailing giant flags had passed an hour earlier; the tanks and fighter jets would come later. Now, it was the turn of a formation of sword-wielding, stamping, infantry in golden turbans to entertain the crowd packed into the grandstands halfway between the stately India Gate and the vast presidential palace in Delhi\u2019s centre.The Verma family \u2013 mother, father, son and daughter \u2013 had come from the eastern outskirts of the Indian capital to watch the show. \u201cIt was necessary to come. I am a proud Indian ... we have to remember our victories, our sacrifices. We have to remember what we can do, and what can be done. This will frighten some people and that is a good thing,\u201d said Priyaranjan Verma, 43, a finance manager for a freight firm.The \u201csome people\u201d he was referring to were the 190 million or so inhabitants of Pakistan, or at least their rulers.Sunday\u2019s parade marked the climax of a month of events in India commemorating the golden anniversary of the 1965 war with the neighbouring country. The partition of India had occurred 18 years before 1965, when the country gained independence from Britain. Pakistan and India have each claimed victory in the inconclusive 60s conflict, one of four they have fought. But over the decades both nations appear largely to have forgotten this war, with history books focusing on the more dramatic clashes of 1947, 1971 and 1999.It surprised some onlookers then when the government of Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist politician who won a landslide election last year after promising to bring economic development and make India \u201crespected\u201d, ordered a high-profile, month-long celebration of his nation\u2019s \u201cvictory\u201d in the 1965 war. The event is reported to have cost more than \u00a33m, and has included military displays in provincial towns, giant newspaper adverts, commemorative coins and stamps, as well as a team of naval personnel motorbiking 1,200 miles across India.Modi opened an exhibition in central Delhi devoted to the war, commenting that \u201cthe valour [and] sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1965 war remains etched in the memory of every Indian\u201d.The 60s conflict started when Pakistan fomented violence in the disputed Himalayan former princedom of Kashmir and ended with a UN-sponsored ceasefire followed by an exchange of captured territory. The war entailed fierce fighting, particularly between tank units, and it is thought both sides suffered more than 3,000 casualties.At the opening ceremony, Manohar Parrikar, India\u2019s defence minister, said the exhibition commemorated \u201cthe first major war that India won\u201d. He added: \u201cSome people raise the question whether India won, or was there a stalemate? Even as a nine-year-old kid I was of the firm opinion that India won hands down.\u201dSome historians\u2019 opinions differ. \u201cIt was inconclusive and that is recognised \u2026 even by those involved in the conflict. We actually gave up what little territory we seized and by no yardstick can it be claimed a victory,\u201d said Pallavi Raghavan, a specialist in relations between India and Pakistan, working at the Centre for Policy Research, in Delhi.However Dilip Hiro, a journalist and analyst, wrote in a recently published account of relations between India and Pakistan that \u201c[India] won by not losing \u2026 [Pakistan] gained nothing from a war it initiated\u201d.The war fought between the two states in 1971, however, was a conclusive defeat for Pakistan. A tentative peace process which followed a further confrontation in 1999 has been frozen since an attack in Mumbai by Pakistan-based militants in 2008. The attack in Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, targeted luxury hotels, commuters, a Jewish centre and tourist sites. There have been several intensive exchanges of artillery fire in the past year, while India continues to blame Pakistan for unrest in Kashmir.Pakistan reacted to the celebrations in India by upgrading its own annual Defence Day, which traditionally marks the 1965 war. Normally a relatively low-key affair, the ceremony held on 6 September was transformed into a big television event, with parachute drops by special forces, air displays and exhibitions of military hardware at various sites around the country.At the main ceremony, at army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the army screened video re-enactments of key battles against Islamist militants.Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief, Raheel Sharif, used the occasion to deliver a sharp warning to India that it would \u201cpay an unbearable cost\u201d if it ever resorted \u201cto any misadventure\u201d. He added: \u201cThe armed forces of Pakistan are fully capable of dealing with all types of internal and external threats, may it be conventional or sub-conventional, whether it is cold start or hot start. We are ready.\u201dHis speech was a riposte to the remarks of his opposite number, the general Dalbir Singh Suhag, who said India was ready for the \u201cswift, short, nature of future wars\u201d.India\u2019s army has long been planning for a \u201ccold start\u201d in any possible confrontation with Pakistan, which would allow it to quickly retaliate, fielding military units with little preparation and thus countering its smaller neighbour\u2019s ability to concentrate forces more rapidly.Sharif also struck a hard line on Kashmir, saying it could \u201cno longer be put on the back burner\u201d, although few foreign policy experts think Pakistan will ever gain control of the whole region.Amid the army\u2019s publicity drive there were signs of a surge of patriotism, even bellicosity, among sections of the public. A newspaper account of a lecture at Karachi University, at which the historian Akbar Zaidi questioned the popular narrative that Pakistan won the 1965 conflict, provoked a storm of anger on social media, with many alleging the newspaper was in the pocket of India.\u201cWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie [than] that Pakistan won the war,\u201d he was reported to have said. \u201cWe lost terribly in the 1965 war.\u201dRaghavan, the Indian historian, said the focus on conflicts ignored the long history of dialogue and exchange between the two nations. \u201cThe warfare has always been contained, never all-out. Each time there is an episode of violence it is followed by an episode of engagement. There is always much good will on both sides and the reasons for that are as durable as the reasons for going to war.\u201dThe sentiment was not universally shared at the parade ground in Delhi.\u201cThese are bad people but we are not frightened of them. Why should we be when we always win?\u201d said Verma, as he quickened his pace to avoid missing the motorbike display team.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "India and Pakistan loudly commemorate the war they both 'won '"},{"date": "2015-09-12T15:36:24Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "UK military personnel are suspected of having participated in the CIA\u2019s controversial drone war in Pakistan, which has resulted in thousands of fatalities.The Ministry of Defence has declined to answer a Freedom of Information request that would confirm whether its personnel have been embedded with US military teams operating drones in the skies above the country. The MoD said that it would neither confirm nor deny the situation because it might jeopardise \u201cinternational relations\u201d.However, it insisted that the UK had never conducted its own drone flights over Pakistan. When pressed, an MoD spokesman said: \u201cUK personnel embedded with the US air force have only flown remotely piloted aircraft systems in support of operations in Afghanistan, Libya and Iraq.\u201dThe carefully worded response leaves open the possibility that drones flown by UK personnel have been operating over the remote tribal regions of Pakistan that adjoin Afghanistan.The MoD\u2019s refusal to clarify appears at odds with comments made by defence secretary Michael Fallon, who has said that \u201cif we are asked to give details\u201d about UK personnel embedded with other countries \u201cwe, of course, do so\u201d.The RAF has long emphasised that its drones operate only in defined theatres of conflict, such as Afghanistan and Iraq, unlike the US which wages covert campaigns in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia. However, it has been confirmed that scores of UK personnel are based at the Creech airbase in Nevada, from where CIA drone missions are operated. A handful of UK personnel are known to have been embedded with US teams, raising questions about who ultimately has authority over them.Last year the former head of GCHQ, David Omand, called for safeguards to ensure that RAF pilots embedded at Creech did not \u201cinadvertently collude\u201d in drone actions \u201ccontrary to international law\u201d. Omand distinguished the UK drone programme from what he called the \u201csinister cultural and political salience\u201d of US drone operations.Jennifer Gibson of human rights group Reprieve, which filed the FOI request, said the refusal to confirm whether UK personnel had been involved was troubling. \u201cThis refusal suggests that we may be embroiled in the CIA\u2019s secret wars in far greater ways than was thought,\u201d Gibson said. \u201cGiven the CIA\u2019s drone programme in Pakistan has killed hundreds of civilians while operating without public accountability, that is cause for serious concern. What more don\u2019t we know?\u201dAccording to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, which tracks them, there have been 421 drone strikes in Pakistan, 370 of which have occurred under the Obama administration.Many are termed \u201csignature strikes,\u201d which are based upon patterns of behaviour, rather than confirmation that a target had been identified. The bureau estimates at least 2,400 people have been killed in the Pakistan strikes, of whom more than 420 may have been civilians.Confirmation that UK personnel have been involved in the CIA\u2019s Pakistan drone programme would raise fresh questions for the government after it revealed last week that two British militants had been killed in RAF drone strikes in Syria. David Cameron told MPs that the strikes were legal because they were taken to prevent attacks on the UK. But some experts questioned whether the alleged attacks were imminent, throwing into question their legitimacy.There has been a long-running debate in the US over the legality and efficacy of its drone programme. \u201cNumerous senior military and intelligence figures have warned that secret drone programmes of this kind can actually make the situation worse, not better,\u201d Gibson said. \u201cBefore heading down this path, we need a real debate, and real answers from the PM \u2026 We need to think very carefully about whether giving our government carte blanche to kill people anywhere in the world, without oversight, is really a good idea.\u201dThe UK\u2019s deployment of embedded drone pilots was not revealed until 2013 when defence minister Andrew Robathan told parliament that they had flown US unmanned aerial vehicles in Afghanistan. Robathan subsequently had to update his statement to confirm that they had also flown drones in Iraq and Libya under arrangements dating back to 2006.Meanwhile, Britain\u2019s largest Islamic organisation warned that last week\u2019s drone attack in Syria risked actually exacerbating the terror threat to the UK by potentially persuading more foreign fighters to join Islamic State (Isis).The Muslim Council of Britain, an umbrella body that represents 500 Islamic organisations around the country, said that the strike had prompted consternation and appeared to contravene the UK\u2019s adherence to the rule of law and due process.In its first statement on the incident, the MCB said that the killing of Reyaad Khan risked fuelling the \u201cnarrative of western duplicity\u201d that terrorism experts say helps Isis recruit new members.Cameron has defended the lethal strike by saying that his primary responsibility as prime minister was \u201cto keep the British people safe\u201d and that there was no other means available to stop Khan from directing terror attacks against the UK.The MCB statement said: \u201cThese drone strikes raise serious questions about parliamentary authority, which resoundingly rejected permission to attack in Syria.\u201cFurthermore, we are concerned that the drone attack targeted at British citizens does not fit well with our commitment to rule of law and due process. These are fundamental British values that we should all champion; not doing so may in fact inadvertently feed into terrorists\u2019 narrative of \u2018western duplicity\u2019.\u201d", "tags": ["World news", "Drones (military)", "Royal Air Force", "CIA", "US military", "US national security", "Pakistan"], "title": "Concern mounts over UK role in Pakistan drone attacks"},{"date": "2015-09-24T14:59:48Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Only 500,000 Pakistanis filed a tax return and paid income tax last year. This is disastrous for the economy. With no sustainable revenue, public debt is spiralling out of control. Despite a robust and thriving private sector, Pakistan is still one of the world\u2019s poorest countries; 30% of children are chronically malnourished.Almost half of government revenue is used to pay debt, which leaves little left for development. Pakistan needs to get better at collecting taxes. Why do so few people pay tax? A public survey by Adam Smith International reveals serious public grievances: people think their money will be misused, or that they should not pay taxes when elites, including politicians, dodge payment. The current tax system is complex, non-transparent and inefficient. Put simply, many people avoid paying tax because the system allows it; others feel they are already taxed a lot on things like fuel and electricity.The good news is people are willing to pay; but not to a flawed system. The bad news is reform efforts have either failed, or been short-lived. Political blockages have slowed down reform efforts and people are disengaged and frustrated. There needs to be greater public demand for a better, more equitable tax system. Advocacy group Research and Advocacy for the Advancement of Allied Reforms (Raftaar) has launched its first campaign that alerts Pakistanis to their role in solving the tax crisis. It engages the public by explaining the linkages between revenue collection and service delivery. Through increased public awareness and advocacy from policy-makers, the group is pushing the government to be accountable for increasing revenue and providing services. The group, funded by the UK\u2019s department for international development and facilitated by Adam Smith International, is advocating for a series of reforms. Currently, there are formal loopholes which allow tax exemptions in certain sectors; this is often politically motivated and leads to significant revenue losses. Raftaar is lobbying for parliamentarians to lead by example and publicly pledge to comply with their tax obligations and reduce unnecessary tax exemptions. It is also putting pressure on the government to remove duties on basic foods items, like wheat and rice. Reducing the price of such items will help lower the prevalence of chronic malnutrition. This is the kind of sustainable development Pakistan needs. To carry out these reforms, the government also needs to improve its legislative, policy and administrative capacity, at both the Federal and provincial level. Provincial reform is essential since revenue collection is decentralised and provinces have a mandate to collect more taxes, namely sales tax on services.Pakistan\u2019s economy depends on it. Its public debt has increased nearly threefold in seven years and public services are severely lacking. Unless equitable and transparent tax collection is prioritised, development will never be sustainable.Content on this page is paid for and provided by Adam Smith International, a sponsor of the Guardian Global Development Professionals Network", "tags": ["Adam Smith International partner zone"], "title": "Paying up in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-09-14T12:02:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Hamid Mir knew one of the guests on his nightly television show had made a mistake the moment he blurted out the name of the country\u2019s army chief without due deference.\u201cHe just said \u2018Raheel Sharif, Raheel Sharif\u2019 without calling him general,\u201d Mir says of a recent episode of his influential Capital Talk programme. \u201cI knew immediately the words came out it would be cut.\u201dAt a time of intense pressure on the media to cooperate with an army public relations campaign that is burnishing the image of General Sharif, channels routinely edit out or drop the sound on the mildest criticism of the military.Even the country\u2019s only Nobel peace prize winner, the schoolgirl activist Malala Yousafzai, was briefly silenced in early August when she said in an interview with Aaj TV that the prime minister had told her he was unable to spend more money on education because of pressure to fund military operations.Mir fears that behind the pressure for self-censorship lurk \u201canti-democratic forces deliberately trying to undermine political institutions by giving more importance to the army.\u201dLeading journalists claim to have received indirect threats from army officials who warn them they are being targeted by terrorists or that their coverage is raising suspicions they have been compromised by the Indian intelligence service.There is little doubt the military has rehabilitated its public reputation after the damage done to its popularity in the final years of the rule of Pervez Musharraf, the coup-making general forced from power in 2007.Media workers say the current unbridled support for the army comes from the need to support the institution at a time when soldiers are dying in a war against Islamist militants. But it also reflects draconian new legal requirements placed on broadcasters. Last month the information ministry issued a sweeping code of conduct that made it a condition of a broadcaster\u2019s licence to not air material that \u201ccontains aspersions against the judiciary or armed forces\u201d.Television stations were also required to have a \u201cdelaying mechanism\u201d on live programmes to enforce the restrictions. Related: Geo TV's face-off with ISI spy agency \u2013 a subplot of a larger tussle in Pakistan Last week the Lahore high court ordered Pemra, the country\u2019s media regulator, to ban all coverage of the speeches and even photographs of the leader of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), the country\u2019s fourth biggest political party, which is reeling from an army-led crackdown in Karachi.Altaf Hussain, who runs the MQM from self-exile in London, was accused in court of committing treason for issuing an incendiary speech in which he lambasted the army and hinted top generals were involved in corruption.Most media companies need little encouragement to stay on the right side of the army given memories of all-out war with Geo TV in April 2014. The popular channel triggered military fury when it aired accusations that the head of the army\u2019s intelligence wing had been behind the near fatal shooting of Mir, its star journalist. Cable television providers were encouraged to drop Geo from their lineup while advertisers deserted the channel.Mir said his bosses tell him to avoid controversial stories because it will \u201cmake trouble for colleagues\u201d. \u201cThey say mysterious people call the advertisers and tell them to stop advertising with Geo and then we won\u2019t be able to pay salaries on time,\u201d he said.Even to suggest Pakistan\u2019s army, with its long history of coups and indirect rule of the country, should stay out of politics is completely beyond the pale, said Mir.The media has given little attention in recent weeks to a supreme court investigation of well-founded allegations of corruption within the army\u2019s property empire. And there has been hardly any discussion of the slow progress in sending home the huge numbers of people displaced by operations against the Taliban in North Waziristan.While the media enthusiastically covers stories about corruption and incompetence among civilian politicians, General Sharif receives fawning coverage. Last week Kamran Khan, one of the country\u2019s most famous journalists, devoted much of his nightly show on Dunya News to what he claimed was a growing public clamour for General Sharif to be given a second term rather than be allowed to retire in November next year.Pakistani journalists credit the general in charge of the army\u2019s public relations department, Asim Bajwa, with crafting an image of Sharif as a dynamic general who was not afraid to take on the Pakistani Taliban.Footage of Sharif visiting frontline troops or receiving foreign leaders in his office regularly push the country\u2019s civilian leadership off the news bulletins. Related: The Hamid Mir case: 'In Pakistan, they used to censor journalists \u2013 now they shoot us' General Bajwa said his job was simply to \u201cshare genuine information with the people\u201d.\u201cWe are not asking the media to do this or that, or to censor anything,\u201d he said. \u201cPeople appreciate the work of the army because the reality on the ground is improving.\u201dAbbas Nasir, a former editor of Dawn, an English-language daily paper, said it was unlikely General Sharif would want a second term given the anger it would be likely to cause within the army. But overconfidence could yet lead to the repeat of the disastrous mistakes of the past.\u201cMy worry is this completely one-sided praise, if it gets to the head of some military leaders, may lead us back to mis-adventurism, whether that\u2019s a march on Islamabad or some sort of an attack on India,\u201d he said. \u201cIf you are constantly told you are great, sooner or later you will believe it.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Freedom of speech", "Journalist safety", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Pakistan press freedom under pressure from army"},{"date": "2015-07-27T09:06:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has banned BlackBerry\u2019s enterprise server and its internet and messaging services \u201cfor security reasons\u201d in a crackdown on privacy.Mobile phone operators were told by the Pakistan telecommunication authority on Friday that the BlackBerry services must be shut down by the start of December.BlackBerry uses strong encryption \u2013 part of its appeal to businesses and users \u2013 which prevents law enforcement and intelligence agencies from intercepting messages and snooping on user activity.\u201cPTA has issued directions to local mobile phone operators to close BlackBerry Enterprise Services from Nov. 30 on security reasons,\u201d said a PTA spokesperson.BlackBerry operates servers through which all internet traffic destined for its smartphones and tablets flows. The servers handle email, messaging, browsing and other communications services, encrypting the data and ensuring greater privacy.A recent report by Privacy International claims Pakistan\u2019s military intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), is seeking to dramatically expand its ability to intercept communications.Privacy International said the ISI had few legal checks on its surveillance practices.\u201cPakistan\u2019s intelligence agencies have abused their communications surveillance powers, including by spying on opposition politicians and supreme court judges. Widespread internet monitoring and censorship has also been used to target journalists, lawyers and activists,\u201d the report said.BlackBerry has faced similar problems in the past in India, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia and Indonesia.In 2010, BlackBerry services were banned within the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Bans were lifted in some states but with tightened restrictions. Prime minister David Cameron also considered banning BlackBerry\u2019s messaging services within the UK during the 2011 riots.BlackBerry said: \u201cBlackBerry provides the world\u2019s most secure communications platform to government, military and enterprise customers. Protecting that security is paramount to our mission. While we recognise the need to cooperate with lawful government investigative requests of criminal activity, we have never permitted wholesale access to our BES servers.\u201d \u2022 BlackBerry left on the line as UK users continue to hang up\u2022 BlackBerry Classic review: the phone diehards have been waiting for", "tags": ["BlackBerry corporation", "BlackBerry", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "Pakistan", "World news", "Privacy", "Surveillance", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan bans BlackBerry services  in privacy crackdown"},{"date": "2015-09-20T14:04:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The four helicopters trailing giant flags had passed an hour earlier; the tanks and fighter jets would come later. Now, it was the turn of a formation of sword-wielding, stamping, infantry in golden turbans to entertain the crowd packed into the grandstands halfway between the stately India Gate and the vast presidential palace in Delhi\u2019s centre.The Verma family \u2013 mother, father, son and daughter \u2013 had come from the eastern outskirts of the Indian capital to watch the show. \u201cIt was necessary to come. I am a proud Indian ... we have to remember our victories, our sacrifices. We have to remember what we can do, and what can be done. This will frighten some people and that is a good thing,\u201d said Priyaranjan Verma, 43, a finance manager for a freight firm.The \u201csome people\u201d he was referring to were the 190 million or so inhabitants of Pakistan, or at least their rulers.Sunday\u2019s parade marked the climax of a month of events in India commemorating the golden anniversary of the 1965 war with the neighbouring country. The partition of India had occurred 18 years before 1965, when the country gained independence from Britain. Pakistan and India have each claimed victory in the inconclusive 60s conflict, one of four they have fought. But over the decades both nations appear largely to have forgotten this war, with history books focusing on the more dramatic clashes of 1947, 1971 and 1999.It surprised some onlookers then when the government of Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist politician who won a landslide election last year after promising to bring economic development and make India \u201crespected\u201d, ordered a high-profile, month-long celebration of his nation\u2019s \u201cvictory\u201d in the 1965 war. The event is reported to have cost more than \u00a33m, and has included military displays in provincial towns, giant newspaper adverts, commemorative coins and stamps, as well as a team of naval personnel motorbiking 1,200 miles across India.Modi opened an exhibition in central Delhi devoted to the war, commenting that \u201cthe valour [and] sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1965 war remains etched in the memory of every Indian\u201d.The 60s conflict started when Pakistan fomented violence in the disputed Himalayan former princedom of Kashmir and ended with a UN-sponsored ceasefire followed by an exchange of captured territory. The war entailed fierce fighting, particularly between tank units, and it is thought both sides suffered more than 3,000 casualties.At the opening ceremony, Manohar Parrikar, India\u2019s defence minister, said the exhibition commemorated \u201cthe first major war that India won\u201d. He added: \u201cSome people raise the question whether India won, or was there a stalemate? Even as a nine-year-old kid I was of the firm opinion that India won hands down.\u201dSome historians\u2019 opinions differ. \u201cIt was inconclusive and that is recognised \u2026 even by those involved in the conflict. We actually gave up what little territory we seized and by no yardstick can it be claimed a victory,\u201d said Pallavi Raghavan, a specialist in relations between India and Pakistan, working at the Centre for Policy Research, in Delhi.However Dilip Hiro, a journalist and analyst, wrote in a recently published account of relations between India and Pakistan that \u201c[India] won by not losing \u2026 [Pakistan] gained nothing from a war it initiated\u201d.The war fought between the two states in 1971, however, was a conclusive defeat for Pakistan. A tentative peace process which followed a further confrontation in 1999 has been frozen since an attack in Mumbai by Pakistan-based militants in 2008. The attack in Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, targeted luxury hotels, commuters, a Jewish centre and tourist sites. There have been several intensive exchanges of artillery fire in the past year, while India continues to blame Pakistan for unrest in Kashmir.Pakistan reacted to the celebrations in India by upgrading its own annual Defence Day, which traditionally marks the 1965 war. Normally a relatively low-key affair, the ceremony held on 6 September was transformed into a big television event, with parachute drops by special forces, air displays and exhibitions of military hardware at various sites around the country.At the main ceremony, at army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the army screened video re-enactments of key battles against Islamist militants.Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief, Raheel Sharif, used the occasion to deliver a sharp warning to India that it would \u201cpay an unbearable cost\u201d if it ever resorted \u201cto any misadventure\u201d. He added: \u201cThe armed forces of Pakistan are fully capable of dealing with all types of internal and external threats, may it be conventional or sub-conventional, whether it is cold start or hot start. We are ready.\u201dHis speech was a riposte to the remarks of his opposite number, the general Dalbir Singh Suhag, who said India was ready for the \u201cswift, short, nature of future wars\u201d.India\u2019s army has long been planning for a \u201ccold start\u201d in any possible confrontation with Pakistan, which would allow it to quickly retaliate, fielding military units with little preparation and thus countering its smaller neighbour\u2019s ability to concentrate forces more rapidly.Sharif also struck a hard line on Kashmir, saying it could \u201cno longer be put on the back burner\u201d, although few foreign policy experts think Pakistan will ever gain control of the whole region.Amid the army\u2019s publicity drive there were signs of a surge of patriotism, even bellicosity, among sections of the public. A newspaper account of a lecture at Karachi University, at which the historian Akbar Zaidi questioned the popular narrative that Pakistan won the 1965 conflict, provoked a storm of anger on social media, with many alleging the newspaper was in the pocket of India.\u201cWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie [than] that Pakistan won the war,\u201d he was reported to have said. \u201cWe lost terribly in the 1965 war.\u201dRaghavan, the Indian historian, said the focus on conflicts ignored the long history of dialogue and exchange between the two nations. \u201cThe warfare has always been contained, never all-out. Each time there is an episode of violence it is followed by an episode of engagement. There is always much good will on both sides and the reasons for that are as durable as the reasons for going to war.\u201dThe sentiment was not universally shared at the parade ground in Delhi.\u201cThese are bad people but we are not frightened of them. Why should we be when we always win?\u201d said Verma, as he quickened his pace to avoid missing the motorbike display team.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "India and Pakistan loudly commemorate the war they both 'won '"},{"date": "2015-09-12T15:36:24Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "UK military personnel are suspected of having participated in the CIA\u2019s controversial drone war in Pakistan, which has resulted in thousands of fatalities.The Ministry of Defence has declined to answer a Freedom of Information request that would confirm whether its personnel have been embedded with US military teams operating drones in the skies above the country. The MoD said that it would neither confirm nor deny the situation because it might jeopardise \u201cinternational relations\u201d.However, it insisted that the UK had never conducted its own drone flights over Pakistan. When pressed, an MoD spokesman said: \u201cUK personnel embedded with the US air force have only flown remotely piloted aircraft systems in support of operations in Afghanistan, Libya and Iraq.\u201dThe carefully worded response leaves open the possibility that drones flown by UK personnel have been operating over the remote tribal regions of Pakistan that adjoin Afghanistan.The MoD\u2019s refusal to clarify appears at odds with comments made by defence secretary Michael Fallon, who has said that \u201cif we are asked to give details\u201d about UK personnel embedded with other countries \u201cwe, of course, do so\u201d.The RAF has long emphasised that its drones operate only in defined theatres of conflict, such as Afghanistan and Iraq, unlike the US which wages covert campaigns in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia. However, it has been confirmed that scores of UK personnel are based at the Creech airbase in Nevada, from where CIA drone missions are operated. A handful of UK personnel are known to have been embedded with US teams, raising questions about who ultimately has authority over them.Last year the former head of GCHQ, David Omand, called for safeguards to ensure that RAF pilots embedded at Creech did not \u201cinadvertently collude\u201d in drone actions \u201ccontrary to international law\u201d. Omand distinguished the UK drone programme from what he called the \u201csinister cultural and political salience\u201d of US drone operations.Jennifer Gibson of human rights group Reprieve, which filed the FOI request, said the refusal to confirm whether UK personnel had been involved was troubling. \u201cThis refusal suggests that we may be embroiled in the CIA\u2019s secret wars in far greater ways than was thought,\u201d Gibson said. \u201cGiven the CIA\u2019s drone programme in Pakistan has killed hundreds of civilians while operating without public accountability, that is cause for serious concern. What more don\u2019t we know?\u201dAccording to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, which tracks them, there have been 421 drone strikes in Pakistan, 370 of which have occurred under the Obama administration.Many are termed \u201csignature strikes,\u201d which are based upon patterns of behaviour, rather than confirmation that a target had been identified. The bureau estimates at least 2,400 people have been killed in the Pakistan strikes, of whom more than 420 may have been civilians.Confirmation that UK personnel have been involved in the CIA\u2019s Pakistan drone programme would raise fresh questions for the government after it revealed last week that two British militants had been killed in RAF drone strikes in Syria. David Cameron told MPs that the strikes were legal because they were taken to prevent attacks on the UK. But some experts questioned whether the alleged attacks were imminent, throwing into question their legitimacy.There has been a long-running debate in the US over the legality and efficacy of its drone programme. \u201cNumerous senior military and intelligence figures have warned that secret drone programmes of this kind can actually make the situation worse, not better,\u201d Gibson said. \u201cBefore heading down this path, we need a real debate, and real answers from the PM \u2026 We need to think very carefully about whether giving our government carte blanche to kill people anywhere in the world, without oversight, is really a good idea.\u201dThe UK\u2019s deployment of embedded drone pilots was not revealed until 2013 when defence minister Andrew Robathan told parliament that they had flown US unmanned aerial vehicles in Afghanistan. Robathan subsequently had to update his statement to confirm that they had also flown drones in Iraq and Libya under arrangements dating back to 2006.Meanwhile, Britain\u2019s largest Islamic organisation warned that last week\u2019s drone attack in Syria risked actually exacerbating the terror threat to the UK by potentially persuading more foreign fighters to join Islamic State (Isis).The Muslim Council of Britain, an umbrella body that represents 500 Islamic organisations around the country, said that the strike had prompted consternation and appeared to contravene the UK\u2019s adherence to the rule of law and due process.In its first statement on the incident, the MCB said that the killing of Reyaad Khan risked fuelling the \u201cnarrative of western duplicity\u201d that terrorism experts say helps Isis recruit new members.Cameron has defended the lethal strike by saying that his primary responsibility as prime minister was \u201cto keep the British people safe\u201d and that there was no other means available to stop Khan from directing terror attacks against the UK.The MCB statement said: \u201cThese drone strikes raise serious questions about parliamentary authority, which resoundingly rejected permission to attack in Syria.\u201cFurthermore, we are concerned that the drone attack targeted at British citizens does not fit well with our commitment to rule of law and due process. These are fundamental British values that we should all champion; not doing so may in fact inadvertently feed into terrorists\u2019 narrative of \u2018western duplicity\u2019.\u201d", "tags": ["World news", "Drones (military)", "Royal Air Force", "CIA", "US military", "US national security", "Pakistan"], "title": "Concern mounts over UK role in Pakistan drone attacks"},{"date": "2015-08-10T12:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The parents of victims of a child sexual abuse scandal that has horrified Pakistan say police tried to downplay the scale of crimes committed by a paedophile ring in a village in the country\u2019s east.It has been claimed that up to 280 girls and boys under the age of 14 were filmed being abused in Hussain Khan Wala, a village in Punjab province, near the Indian border. The videos were then used to blackmail their families as well as being sold to websites that host child abuse images. Locals say police were reluctant to take action until it became a national scandal.\u201cPolice did not even listen to me when I went to the station,\u201d said the mother of one rape victim, who did not want her name revealed and who first took video evidence to the police in July.\u201cThe first policeman said I should ask my daughter whether her rapist was her lover,\u201d the woman said.Public anger has been stoked by police claims over the weekend that far fewer victims were involved and that they were well into their teenage years at the time.Latif Ahmed Sara, a lawyer representing the victims, insisted every third house in the village was affected by the abuse.Last week there were clashes between police and hundreds of protesters who believe there was an attempt to protect a criminal group that they say includes influential local people.Police insist they took the case seriously from the start, appealing through local mosques for people with information to come forward. They say they have identified 10 culprits and made seven arrests so far.The disturbing videos have circulated widely within the village, which is thought to be home to about 5,000 people. Many villagers have copies of the videos on their mobile phones, which they have shown to members of the media who have visited in recent days.Officials who have viewed them say much of the abuse appeared to take place in a schoolroom and a farmhouse.The case has triggered a wave of disgust in Pakistan, where child abuse is widespread but rarely challenged, according to human rights groups.Responding to the public clamour, the chief minister of Punjab, the province where the abuse took place, ordered a judicial inquiry on Sunday. Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, has vowed to bring those involved to justice.There was criticism, however, over the failure of any politicians to visit the village, which lies just 30 miles south of the provincial capital Lahore.Police say the case was first reported on 1 July and that local mosques were immediately called on to appeal for information.Rai Babar, a district police officer, said the men in the videos were easily identifiable but that only 50 clips had been recovered, not the hundreds reported in the media.\u201cI assure you people involved in this inhuman act will be brought to justice,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is not something started in the near past, rather it is something related to the last seven or eight years.\u201dPolice have claimed the videos had been brought to light to discredit a group of people involved in a local land dispute.\u201cWhy did the police let criminals get away with doing this to our innocent kids for so long?\u201d asked Abdul Razaq, father of one of the victims. Razaq added that his son had been threatened to keep quiet or risk the video of his abuse being made public.\u201cThey only took action when the media raised the story up,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Child protection", "Children", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan police accused of downplaying child sexual abuse scandal"},{"date": "2015-09-24T14:59:48Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Only 500,000 Pakistanis filed a tax return and paid income tax last year. This is disastrous for the economy. With no sustainable revenue, public debt is spiralling out of control. Despite a robust and thriving private sector, Pakistan is still one of the world\u2019s poorest countries; 30% of children are chronically malnourished.Almost half of government revenue is used to pay debt, which leaves little left for development. Pakistan needs to get better at collecting taxes. Why do so few people pay tax? A public survey by Adam Smith International reveals serious public grievances: people think their money will be misused, or that they should not pay taxes when elites, including politicians, dodge payment. The current tax system is complex, non-transparent and inefficient. Put simply, many people avoid paying tax because the system allows it; others feel they are already taxed a lot on things like fuel and electricity.The good news is people are willing to pay; but not to a flawed system. The bad news is reform efforts have either failed, or been short-lived. Political blockages have slowed down reform efforts and people are disengaged and frustrated. There needs to be greater public demand for a better, more equitable tax system. Advocacy group Research and Advocacy for the Advancement of Allied Reforms (Raftaar) has launched its first campaign that alerts Pakistanis to their role in solving the tax crisis. It engages the public by explaining the linkages between revenue collection and service delivery. Through increased public awareness and advocacy from policy-makers, the group is pushing the government to be accountable for increasing revenue and providing services. The group, funded by the UK\u2019s department for international development and facilitated by Adam Smith International, is advocating for a series of reforms. Currently, there are formal loopholes which allow tax exemptions in certain sectors; this is often politically motivated and leads to significant revenue losses. Raftaar is lobbying for parliamentarians to lead by example and publicly pledge to comply with their tax obligations and reduce unnecessary tax exemptions. It is also putting pressure on the government to remove duties on basic foods items, like wheat and rice. Reducing the price of such items will help lower the prevalence of chronic malnutrition. This is the kind of sustainable development Pakistan needs. To carry out these reforms, the government also needs to improve its legislative, policy and administrative capacity, at both the Federal and provincial level. Provincial reform is essential since revenue collection is decentralised and provinces have a mandate to collect more taxes, namely sales tax on services.Pakistan\u2019s economy depends on it. Its public debt has increased nearly threefold in seven years and public services are severely lacking. Unless equitable and transparent tax collection is prioritised, development will never be sustainable.Content on this page is paid for and provided by Adam Smith International, a sponsor of the Guardian Global Development Professionals Network", "tags": ["Adam Smith International partner zone"], "title": "Paying up in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-09-14T12:02:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Hamid Mir knew one of the guests on his nightly television show had made a mistake the moment he blurted out the name of the country\u2019s army chief without due deference.\u201cHe just said \u2018Raheel Sharif, Raheel Sharif\u2019 without calling him general,\u201d Mir says of a recent episode of his influential Capital Talk programme. \u201cI knew immediately the words came out it would be cut.\u201dAt a time of intense pressure on the media to cooperate with an army public relations campaign that is burnishing the image of General Sharif, channels routinely edit out or drop the sound on the mildest criticism of the military.Even the country\u2019s only Nobel peace prize winner, the schoolgirl activist Malala Yousafzai, was briefly silenced in early August when she said in an interview with Aaj TV that the prime minister had told her he was unable to spend more money on education because of pressure to fund military operations.Mir fears that behind the pressure for self-censorship lurk \u201canti-democratic forces deliberately trying to undermine political institutions by giving more importance to the army.\u201dLeading journalists claim to have received indirect threats from army officials who warn them they are being targeted by terrorists or that their coverage is raising suspicions they have been compromised by the Indian intelligence service.There is little doubt the military has rehabilitated its public reputation after the damage done to its popularity in the final years of the rule of Pervez Musharraf, the coup-making general forced from power in 2007.Media workers say the current unbridled support for the army comes from the need to support the institution at a time when soldiers are dying in a war against Islamist militants. But it also reflects draconian new legal requirements placed on broadcasters. Last month the information ministry issued a sweeping code of conduct that made it a condition of a broadcaster\u2019s licence to not air material that \u201ccontains aspersions against the judiciary or armed forces\u201d.Television stations were also required to have a \u201cdelaying mechanism\u201d on live programmes to enforce the restrictions. Related: Geo TV's face-off with ISI spy agency \u2013 a subplot of a larger tussle in Pakistan Last week the Lahore high court ordered Pemra, the country\u2019s media regulator, to ban all coverage of the speeches and even photographs of the leader of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), the country\u2019s fourth biggest political party, which is reeling from an army-led crackdown in Karachi.Altaf Hussain, who runs the MQM from self-exile in London, was accused in court of committing treason for issuing an incendiary speech in which he lambasted the army and hinted top generals were involved in corruption.Most media companies need little encouragement to stay on the right side of the army given memories of all-out war with Geo TV in April 2014. The popular channel triggered military fury when it aired accusations that the head of the army\u2019s intelligence wing had been behind the near fatal shooting of Mir, its star journalist. Cable television providers were encouraged to drop Geo from their lineup while advertisers deserted the channel.Mir said his bosses tell him to avoid controversial stories because it will \u201cmake trouble for colleagues\u201d. \u201cThey say mysterious people call the advertisers and tell them to stop advertising with Geo and then we won\u2019t be able to pay salaries on time,\u201d he said.Even to suggest Pakistan\u2019s army, with its long history of coups and indirect rule of the country, should stay out of politics is completely beyond the pale, said Mir.The media has given little attention in recent weeks to a supreme court investigation of well-founded allegations of corruption within the army\u2019s property empire. And there has been hardly any discussion of the slow progress in sending home the huge numbers of people displaced by operations against the Taliban in North Waziristan.While the media enthusiastically covers stories about corruption and incompetence among civilian politicians, General Sharif receives fawning coverage. Last week Kamran Khan, one of the country\u2019s most famous journalists, devoted much of his nightly show on Dunya News to what he claimed was a growing public clamour for General Sharif to be given a second term rather than be allowed to retire in November next year.Pakistani journalists credit the general in charge of the army\u2019s public relations department, Asim Bajwa, with crafting an image of Sharif as a dynamic general who was not afraid to take on the Pakistani Taliban.Footage of Sharif visiting frontline troops or receiving foreign leaders in his office regularly push the country\u2019s civilian leadership off the news bulletins. Related: The Hamid Mir case: 'In Pakistan, they used to censor journalists \u2013 now they shoot us' General Bajwa said his job was simply to \u201cshare genuine information with the people\u201d.\u201cWe are not asking the media to do this or that, or to censor anything,\u201d he said. \u201cPeople appreciate the work of the army because the reality on the ground is improving.\u201dAbbas Nasir, a former editor of Dawn, an English-language daily paper, said it was unlikely General Sharif would want a second term given the anger it would be likely to cause within the army. But overconfidence could yet lead to the repeat of the disastrous mistakes of the past.\u201cMy worry is this completely one-sided praise, if it gets to the head of some military leaders, may lead us back to mis-adventurism, whether that\u2019s a march on Islamabad or some sort of an attack on India,\u201d he said. \u201cIf you are constantly told you are great, sooner or later you will believe it.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Freedom of speech", "Journalist safety", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Pakistan press freedom under pressure from army"},{"date": "2015-07-27T09:06:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has banned BlackBerry\u2019s enterprise server and its internet and messaging services \u201cfor security reasons\u201d in a crackdown on privacy.Mobile phone operators were told by the Pakistan telecommunication authority on Friday that the BlackBerry services must be shut down by the start of December.BlackBerry uses strong encryption \u2013 part of its appeal to businesses and users \u2013 which prevents law enforcement and intelligence agencies from intercepting messages and snooping on user activity.\u201cPTA has issued directions to local mobile phone operators to close BlackBerry Enterprise Services from Nov. 30 on security reasons,\u201d said a PTA spokesperson.BlackBerry operates servers through which all internet traffic destined for its smartphones and tablets flows. The servers handle email, messaging, browsing and other communications services, encrypting the data and ensuring greater privacy.A recent report by Privacy International claims Pakistan\u2019s military intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), is seeking to dramatically expand its ability to intercept communications.Privacy International said the ISI had few legal checks on its surveillance practices.\u201cPakistan\u2019s intelligence agencies have abused their communications surveillance powers, including by spying on opposition politicians and supreme court judges. Widespread internet monitoring and censorship has also been used to target journalists, lawyers and activists,\u201d the report said.BlackBerry has faced similar problems in the past in India, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia and Indonesia.In 2010, BlackBerry services were banned within the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Bans were lifted in some states but with tightened restrictions. Prime minister David Cameron also considered banning BlackBerry\u2019s messaging services within the UK during the 2011 riots.BlackBerry said: \u201cBlackBerry provides the world\u2019s most secure communications platform to government, military and enterprise customers. Protecting that security is paramount to our mission. While we recognise the need to cooperate with lawful government investigative requests of criminal activity, we have never permitted wholesale access to our BES servers.\u201d \u2022 BlackBerry left on the line as UK users continue to hang up\u2022 BlackBerry Classic review: the phone diehards have been waiting for", "tags": ["BlackBerry corporation", "BlackBerry", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "Pakistan", "World news", "Privacy", "Surveillance", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan bans BlackBerry services  in privacy crackdown"},{"date": "2015-09-20T14:04:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The four helicopters trailing giant flags had passed an hour earlier; the tanks and fighter jets would come later. Now, it was the turn of a formation of sword-wielding, stamping, infantry in golden turbans to entertain the crowd packed into the grandstands halfway between the stately India Gate and the vast presidential palace in Delhi\u2019s centre.The Verma family \u2013 mother, father, son and daughter \u2013 had come from the eastern outskirts of the Indian capital to watch the show. \u201cIt was necessary to come. I am a proud Indian ... we have to remember our victories, our sacrifices. We have to remember what we can do, and what can be done. This will frighten some people and that is a good thing,\u201d said Priyaranjan Verma, 43, a finance manager for a freight firm.The \u201csome people\u201d he was referring to were the 190 million or so inhabitants of Pakistan, or at least their rulers.Sunday\u2019s parade marked the climax of a month of events in India commemorating the golden anniversary of the 1965 war with the neighbouring country. The partition of India had occurred 18 years before 1965, when the country gained independence from Britain. Pakistan and India have each claimed victory in the inconclusive 60s conflict, one of four they have fought. But over the decades both nations appear largely to have forgotten this war, with history books focusing on the more dramatic clashes of 1947, 1971 and 1999.It surprised some onlookers then when the government of Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist politician who won a landslide election last year after promising to bring economic development and make India \u201crespected\u201d, ordered a high-profile, month-long celebration of his nation\u2019s \u201cvictory\u201d in the 1965 war. The event is reported to have cost more than \u00a33m, and has included military displays in provincial towns, giant newspaper adverts, commemorative coins and stamps, as well as a team of naval personnel motorbiking 1,200 miles across India.Modi opened an exhibition in central Delhi devoted to the war, commenting that \u201cthe valour [and] sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1965 war remains etched in the memory of every Indian\u201d.The 60s conflict started when Pakistan fomented violence in the disputed Himalayan former princedom of Kashmir and ended with a UN-sponsored ceasefire followed by an exchange of captured territory. The war entailed fierce fighting, particularly between tank units, and it is thought both sides suffered more than 3,000 casualties.At the opening ceremony, Manohar Parrikar, India\u2019s defence minister, said the exhibition commemorated \u201cthe first major war that India won\u201d. He added: \u201cSome people raise the question whether India won, or was there a stalemate? Even as a nine-year-old kid I was of the firm opinion that India won hands down.\u201dSome historians\u2019 opinions differ. \u201cIt was inconclusive and that is recognised \u2026 even by those involved in the conflict. We actually gave up what little territory we seized and by no yardstick can it be claimed a victory,\u201d said Pallavi Raghavan, a specialist in relations between India and Pakistan, working at the Centre for Policy Research, in Delhi.However Dilip Hiro, a journalist and analyst, wrote in a recently published account of relations between India and Pakistan that \u201c[India] won by not losing \u2026 [Pakistan] gained nothing from a war it initiated\u201d.The war fought between the two states in 1971, however, was a conclusive defeat for Pakistan. A tentative peace process which followed a further confrontation in 1999 has been frozen since an attack in Mumbai by Pakistan-based militants in 2008. The attack in Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, targeted luxury hotels, commuters, a Jewish centre and tourist sites. There have been several intensive exchanges of artillery fire in the past year, while India continues to blame Pakistan for unrest in Kashmir.Pakistan reacted to the celebrations in India by upgrading its own annual Defence Day, which traditionally marks the 1965 war. Normally a relatively low-key affair, the ceremony held on 6 September was transformed into a big television event, with parachute drops by special forces, air displays and exhibitions of military hardware at various sites around the country.At the main ceremony, at army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the army screened video re-enactments of key battles against Islamist militants.Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief, Raheel Sharif, used the occasion to deliver a sharp warning to India that it would \u201cpay an unbearable cost\u201d if it ever resorted \u201cto any misadventure\u201d. He added: \u201cThe armed forces of Pakistan are fully capable of dealing with all types of internal and external threats, may it be conventional or sub-conventional, whether it is cold start or hot start. We are ready.\u201dHis speech was a riposte to the remarks of his opposite number, the general Dalbir Singh Suhag, who said India was ready for the \u201cswift, short, nature of future wars\u201d.India\u2019s army has long been planning for a \u201ccold start\u201d in any possible confrontation with Pakistan, which would allow it to quickly retaliate, fielding military units with little preparation and thus countering its smaller neighbour\u2019s ability to concentrate forces more rapidly.Sharif also struck a hard line on Kashmir, saying it could \u201cno longer be put on the back burner\u201d, although few foreign policy experts think Pakistan will ever gain control of the whole region.Amid the army\u2019s publicity drive there were signs of a surge of patriotism, even bellicosity, among sections of the public. A newspaper account of a lecture at Karachi University, at which the historian Akbar Zaidi questioned the popular narrative that Pakistan won the 1965 conflict, provoked a storm of anger on social media, with many alleging the newspaper was in the pocket of India.\u201cWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie [than] that Pakistan won the war,\u201d he was reported to have said. \u201cWe lost terribly in the 1965 war.\u201dRaghavan, the Indian historian, said the focus on conflicts ignored the long history of dialogue and exchange between the two nations. \u201cThe warfare has always been contained, never all-out. Each time there is an episode of violence it is followed by an episode of engagement. There is always much good will on both sides and the reasons for that are as durable as the reasons for going to war.\u201dThe sentiment was not universally shared at the parade ground in Delhi.\u201cThese are bad people but we are not frightened of them. Why should we be when we always win?\u201d said Verma, as he quickened his pace to avoid missing the motorbike display team.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "India and Pakistan loudly commemorate the war they both 'won '"},{"date": "2015-09-12T15:36:24Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "UK military personnel are suspected of having participated in the CIA\u2019s controversial drone war in Pakistan, which has resulted in thousands of fatalities.The Ministry of Defence has declined to answer a Freedom of Information request that would confirm whether its personnel have been embedded with US military teams operating drones in the skies above the country. The MoD said that it would neither confirm nor deny the situation because it might jeopardise \u201cinternational relations\u201d.However, it insisted that the UK had never conducted its own drone flights over Pakistan. When pressed, an MoD spokesman said: \u201cUK personnel embedded with the US air force have only flown remotely piloted aircraft systems in support of operations in Afghanistan, Libya and Iraq.\u201dThe carefully worded response leaves open the possibility that drones flown by UK personnel have been operating over the remote tribal regions of Pakistan that adjoin Afghanistan.The MoD\u2019s refusal to clarify appears at odds with comments made by defence secretary Michael Fallon, who has said that \u201cif we are asked to give details\u201d about UK personnel embedded with other countries \u201cwe, of course, do so\u201d.The RAF has long emphasised that its drones operate only in defined theatres of conflict, such as Afghanistan and Iraq, unlike the US which wages covert campaigns in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia. However, it has been confirmed that scores of UK personnel are based at the Creech airbase in Nevada, from where CIA drone missions are operated. A handful of UK personnel are known to have been embedded with US teams, raising questions about who ultimately has authority over them.Last year the former head of GCHQ, David Omand, called for safeguards to ensure that RAF pilots embedded at Creech did not \u201cinadvertently collude\u201d in drone actions \u201ccontrary to international law\u201d. Omand distinguished the UK drone programme from what he called the \u201csinister cultural and political salience\u201d of US drone operations.Jennifer Gibson of human rights group Reprieve, which filed the FOI request, said the refusal to confirm whether UK personnel had been involved was troubling. \u201cThis refusal suggests that we may be embroiled in the CIA\u2019s secret wars in far greater ways than was thought,\u201d Gibson said. \u201cGiven the CIA\u2019s drone programme in Pakistan has killed hundreds of civilians while operating without public accountability, that is cause for serious concern. What more don\u2019t we know?\u201dAccording to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, which tracks them, there have been 421 drone strikes in Pakistan, 370 of which have occurred under the Obama administration.Many are termed \u201csignature strikes,\u201d which are based upon patterns of behaviour, rather than confirmation that a target had been identified. The bureau estimates at least 2,400 people have been killed in the Pakistan strikes, of whom more than 420 may have been civilians.Confirmation that UK personnel have been involved in the CIA\u2019s Pakistan drone programme would raise fresh questions for the government after it revealed last week that two British militants had been killed in RAF drone strikes in Syria. David Cameron told MPs that the strikes were legal because they were taken to prevent attacks on the UK. But some experts questioned whether the alleged attacks were imminent, throwing into question their legitimacy.There has been a long-running debate in the US over the legality and efficacy of its drone programme. \u201cNumerous senior military and intelligence figures have warned that secret drone programmes of this kind can actually make the situation worse, not better,\u201d Gibson said. \u201cBefore heading down this path, we need a real debate, and real answers from the PM \u2026 We need to think very carefully about whether giving our government carte blanche to kill people anywhere in the world, without oversight, is really a good idea.\u201dThe UK\u2019s deployment of embedded drone pilots was not revealed until 2013 when defence minister Andrew Robathan told parliament that they had flown US unmanned aerial vehicles in Afghanistan. Robathan subsequently had to update his statement to confirm that they had also flown drones in Iraq and Libya under arrangements dating back to 2006.Meanwhile, Britain\u2019s largest Islamic organisation warned that last week\u2019s drone attack in Syria risked actually exacerbating the terror threat to the UK by potentially persuading more foreign fighters to join Islamic State (Isis).The Muslim Council of Britain, an umbrella body that represents 500 Islamic organisations around the country, said that the strike had prompted consternation and appeared to contravene the UK\u2019s adherence to the rule of law and due process.In its first statement on the incident, the MCB said that the killing of Reyaad Khan risked fuelling the \u201cnarrative of western duplicity\u201d that terrorism experts say helps Isis recruit new members.Cameron has defended the lethal strike by saying that his primary responsibility as prime minister was \u201cto keep the British people safe\u201d and that there was no other means available to stop Khan from directing terror attacks against the UK.The MCB statement said: \u201cThese drone strikes raise serious questions about parliamentary authority, which resoundingly rejected permission to attack in Syria.\u201cFurthermore, we are concerned that the drone attack targeted at British citizens does not fit well with our commitment to rule of law and due process. These are fundamental British values that we should all champion; not doing so may in fact inadvertently feed into terrorists\u2019 narrative of \u2018western duplicity\u2019.\u201d", "tags": ["World news", "Drones (military)", "Royal Air Force", "CIA", "US military", "US national security", "Pakistan"], "title": "Concern mounts over UK role in Pakistan drone attacks"},{"date": "2015-08-10T12:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The parents of victims of a child sexual abuse scandal that has horrified Pakistan say police tried to downplay the scale of crimes committed by a paedophile ring in a village in the country\u2019s east.It has been claimed that up to 280 girls and boys under the age of 14 were filmed being abused in Hussain Khan Wala, a village in Punjab province, near the Indian border. The videos were then used to blackmail their families as well as being sold to websites that host child abuse images. Locals say police were reluctant to take action until it became a national scandal.\u201cPolice did not even listen to me when I went to the station,\u201d said the mother of one rape victim, who did not want her name revealed and who first took video evidence to the police in July.\u201cThe first policeman said I should ask my daughter whether her rapist was her lover,\u201d the woman said.Public anger has been stoked by police claims over the weekend that far fewer victims were involved and that they were well into their teenage years at the time.Latif Ahmed Sara, a lawyer representing the victims, insisted every third house in the village was affected by the abuse.Last week there were clashes between police and hundreds of protesters who believe there was an attempt to protect a criminal group that they say includes influential local people.Police insist they took the case seriously from the start, appealing through local mosques for people with information to come forward. They say they have identified 10 culprits and made seven arrests so far.The disturbing videos have circulated widely within the village, which is thought to be home to about 5,000 people. Many villagers have copies of the videos on their mobile phones, which they have shown to members of the media who have visited in recent days.Officials who have viewed them say much of the abuse appeared to take place in a schoolroom and a farmhouse.The case has triggered a wave of disgust in Pakistan, where child abuse is widespread but rarely challenged, according to human rights groups.Responding to the public clamour, the chief minister of Punjab, the province where the abuse took place, ordered a judicial inquiry on Sunday. Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, has vowed to bring those involved to justice.There was criticism, however, over the failure of any politicians to visit the village, which lies just 30 miles south of the provincial capital Lahore.Police say the case was first reported on 1 July and that local mosques were immediately called on to appeal for information.Rai Babar, a district police officer, said the men in the videos were easily identifiable but that only 50 clips had been recovered, not the hundreds reported in the media.\u201cI assure you people involved in this inhuman act will be brought to justice,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is not something started in the near past, rather it is something related to the last seven or eight years.\u201dPolice have claimed the videos had been brought to light to discredit a group of people involved in a local land dispute.\u201cWhy did the police let criminals get away with doing this to our innocent kids for so long?\u201d asked Abdul Razaq, father of one of the victims. Razaq added that his son had been threatened to keep quiet or risk the video of his abuse being made public.\u201cThey only took action when the media raised the story up,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Child protection", "Children", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan police accused of downplaying child sexual abuse scandal"},{"date": "2015-07-27T11:11:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "When the weekend began, my main concern was the impending execution of a mentally ill man. Khizar Hayat is schizophrenic, and his illness has been exacerbated by 17 years spent on Pakistan\u2019s death row. Around 2008, he took a terrible decline. He started saying that the world was coming to an end because the Americans had landed on the moon. He began to think that his mother had been a Pharaoh\u2019s Queen. Related: Justice in Pakistan: \"The government is hanging people left, right and centre\" No doubt the two dates he has had with the hangman in the last eight weeks have not helped either, although he has little rational comprehension of his plight. In May he came within several hours of execution, and last week he received another \u2018black warrant\u2019 informing him he would walk to the gallows at 4.30am next Tuesday morning.Due to the exceptional work of Sarah Belal and the Justice Project of Pakistan (JPP), as well as the courageous application of the rule of law by district and sessions Judge Tariq Iftikar Ahmad, Khizar\u2019s latest dance with death was delayed on Saturday afternoon to allow time for a proper medical evaluation. And yet, within 30 minutes, we heard that the next in line \u2013 slated for execution dawn on Wednesday \u2013 would be Abdul Basit: a paraplegic. In the gallows game of musical chairs, he is the one in the wheelchair. I spent Saturday evening reading his file. Whether he even committed the crime described seems questionable, though there is not time to do the necessary investigation in the next 48 hours. Abdul was perfectly fit when he went to prison in 2008, but in 2010 he became very sick. He cannot stand with the noose around his neck, so will they hang his wheelchair along with him?The prison did not give him sufficient health care, and it was a month before he was diagnosed with tuberculous (TB) meningitis. By then he was in a coma, and not long afterwards he was permanently in a wheelchair with a damaged spinal cord, lucky to have survived at all. Setting aside the issue of whether he was guilty in the first place, the question is whether a prison in the twenty first century should be killing someone who they have already come close to killing once. Leaving that aside, how do the authorities propose to do it? The Pakistan prison code provides that \u201ca person who carries out the execution shall be paid rupees ten per execution out of the contingencies.\u201d At current rates, that translates to a little more than six pence.But they will need several six pences, for the hangman will not be able to kill Abdul by himself. Abdul cannot walk to the gallows, so there will be the unedifying spectacle of them dragging him there.Due to his paralysis, he can no longer control his sphincter, so no matter how much courage he shows he will not be able to hold his bowels. Will they give him continence pads? He cannot stand with the noose around his neck, so all their morbid estimates of how long a \u201cdrop\u201d he needs to die will be for naught. Perhaps they will hang his wheelchair along with him?If these were the first two people \u2013 one a schizophrenic and the other a paraplegic \u2013 carefully selected for execution after the month-long Ramadan hiatus, we can only wonder who is going to be next. One of the many juveniles? A pregnant woman perhaps? Certainly, there seem to be plenty of innocent people among the 8,261 people on Pakistan\u2019s death row.In the name of all that is decent, it is time for the Pakistan president to call a halt to this grisly experiment with the gallows. Meanwhile, the many honourable judges in Pakistan must follow Judge Ahmad\u2019s example in enforcing the rule of law, starting with Abdul Basit. I have watched several of my clients being executed, and the question remains: why do we kill people who we think killed people, to show that killing people is wrong?Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Pakistan", "Capital punishment", "Human rights", "Law", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan urged to halt execution of severely disabled prisoner"},{"date": "2015-09-24T14:59:48Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Only 500,000 Pakistanis filed a tax return and paid income tax last year. This is disastrous for the economy. With no sustainable revenue, public debt is spiralling out of control. Despite a robust and thriving private sector, Pakistan is still one of the world\u2019s poorest countries; 30% of children are chronically malnourished.Almost half of government revenue is used to pay debt, which leaves little left for development. Pakistan needs to get better at collecting taxes. Why do so few people pay tax? A public survey by Adam Smith International reveals serious public grievances: people think their money will be misused, or that they should not pay taxes when elites, including politicians, dodge payment. The current tax system is complex, non-transparent and inefficient. Put simply, many people avoid paying tax because the system allows it; others feel they are already taxed a lot on things like fuel and electricity.The good news is people are willing to pay; but not to a flawed system. The bad news is reform efforts have either failed, or been short-lived. Political blockages have slowed down reform efforts and people are disengaged and frustrated. There needs to be greater public demand for a better, more equitable tax system. Advocacy group Research and Advocacy for the Advancement of Allied Reforms (Raftaar) has launched its first campaign that alerts Pakistanis to their role in solving the tax crisis. It engages the public by explaining the linkages between revenue collection and service delivery. Through increased public awareness and advocacy from policy-makers, the group is pushing the government to be accountable for increasing revenue and providing services. The group, funded by the UK\u2019s department for international development and facilitated by Adam Smith International, is advocating for a series of reforms. Currently, there are formal loopholes which allow tax exemptions in certain sectors; this is often politically motivated and leads to significant revenue losses. Raftaar is lobbying for parliamentarians to lead by example and publicly pledge to comply with their tax obligations and reduce unnecessary tax exemptions. It is also putting pressure on the government to remove duties on basic foods items, like wheat and rice. Reducing the price of such items will help lower the prevalence of chronic malnutrition. This is the kind of sustainable development Pakistan needs. To carry out these reforms, the government also needs to improve its legislative, policy and administrative capacity, at both the Federal and provincial level. Provincial reform is essential since revenue collection is decentralised and provinces have a mandate to collect more taxes, namely sales tax on services.Pakistan\u2019s economy depends on it. Its public debt has increased nearly threefold in seven years and public services are severely lacking. Unless equitable and transparent tax collection is prioritised, development will never be sustainable.Content on this page is paid for and provided by Adam Smith International, a sponsor of the Guardian Global Development Professionals Network", "tags": ["Adam Smith International partner zone"], "title": "Paying up in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-09-14T12:02:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Hamid Mir knew one of the guests on his nightly television show had made a mistake the moment he blurted out the name of the country\u2019s army chief without due deference.\u201cHe just said \u2018Raheel Sharif, Raheel Sharif\u2019 without calling him general,\u201d Mir says of a recent episode of his influential Capital Talk programme. \u201cI knew immediately the words came out it would be cut.\u201dAt a time of intense pressure on the media to cooperate with an army public relations campaign that is burnishing the image of General Sharif, channels routinely edit out or drop the sound on the mildest criticism of the military.Even the country\u2019s only Nobel peace prize winner, the schoolgirl activist Malala Yousafzai, was briefly silenced in early August when she said in an interview with Aaj TV that the prime minister had told her he was unable to spend more money on education because of pressure to fund military operations.Mir fears that behind the pressure for self-censorship lurk \u201canti-democratic forces deliberately trying to undermine political institutions by giving more importance to the army.\u201dLeading journalists claim to have received indirect threats from army officials who warn them they are being targeted by terrorists or that their coverage is raising suspicions they have been compromised by the Indian intelligence service.There is little doubt the military has rehabilitated its public reputation after the damage done to its popularity in the final years of the rule of Pervez Musharraf, the coup-making general forced from power in 2007.Media workers say the current unbridled support for the army comes from the need to support the institution at a time when soldiers are dying in a war against Islamist militants. But it also reflects draconian new legal requirements placed on broadcasters. Last month the information ministry issued a sweeping code of conduct that made it a condition of a broadcaster\u2019s licence to not air material that \u201ccontains aspersions against the judiciary or armed forces\u201d.Television stations were also required to have a \u201cdelaying mechanism\u201d on live programmes to enforce the restrictions. Related: Geo TV's face-off with ISI spy agency \u2013 a subplot of a larger tussle in Pakistan Last week the Lahore high court ordered Pemra, the country\u2019s media regulator, to ban all coverage of the speeches and even photographs of the leader of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), the country\u2019s fourth biggest political party, which is reeling from an army-led crackdown in Karachi.Altaf Hussain, who runs the MQM from self-exile in London, was accused in court of committing treason for issuing an incendiary speech in which he lambasted the army and hinted top generals were involved in corruption.Most media companies need little encouragement to stay on the right side of the army given memories of all-out war with Geo TV in April 2014. The popular channel triggered military fury when it aired accusations that the head of the army\u2019s intelligence wing had been behind the near fatal shooting of Mir, its star journalist. Cable television providers were encouraged to drop Geo from their lineup while advertisers deserted the channel.Mir said his bosses tell him to avoid controversial stories because it will \u201cmake trouble for colleagues\u201d. \u201cThey say mysterious people call the advertisers and tell them to stop advertising with Geo and then we won\u2019t be able to pay salaries on time,\u201d he said.Even to suggest Pakistan\u2019s army, with its long history of coups and indirect rule of the country, should stay out of politics is completely beyond the pale, said Mir.The media has given little attention in recent weeks to a supreme court investigation of well-founded allegations of corruption within the army\u2019s property empire. And there has been hardly any discussion of the slow progress in sending home the huge numbers of people displaced by operations against the Taliban in North Waziristan.While the media enthusiastically covers stories about corruption and incompetence among civilian politicians, General Sharif receives fawning coverage. Last week Kamran Khan, one of the country\u2019s most famous journalists, devoted much of his nightly show on Dunya News to what he claimed was a growing public clamour for General Sharif to be given a second term rather than be allowed to retire in November next year.Pakistani journalists credit the general in charge of the army\u2019s public relations department, Asim Bajwa, with crafting an image of Sharif as a dynamic general who was not afraid to take on the Pakistani Taliban.Footage of Sharif visiting frontline troops or receiving foreign leaders in his office regularly push the country\u2019s civilian leadership off the news bulletins. Related: The Hamid Mir case: 'In Pakistan, they used to censor journalists \u2013 now they shoot us' General Bajwa said his job was simply to \u201cshare genuine information with the people\u201d.\u201cWe are not asking the media to do this or that, or to censor anything,\u201d he said. \u201cPeople appreciate the work of the army because the reality on the ground is improving.\u201dAbbas Nasir, a former editor of Dawn, an English-language daily paper, said it was unlikely General Sharif would want a second term given the anger it would be likely to cause within the army. But overconfidence could yet lead to the repeat of the disastrous mistakes of the past.\u201cMy worry is this completely one-sided praise, if it gets to the head of some military leaders, may lead us back to mis-adventurism, whether that\u2019s a march on Islamabad or some sort of an attack on India,\u201d he said. \u201cIf you are constantly told you are great, sooner or later you will believe it.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Freedom of speech", "Journalist safety", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Pakistan press freedom under pressure from army"},{"date": "2015-07-27T09:06:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has banned BlackBerry\u2019s enterprise server and its internet and messaging services \u201cfor security reasons\u201d in a crackdown on privacy.Mobile phone operators were told by the Pakistan telecommunication authority on Friday that the BlackBerry services must be shut down by the start of December.BlackBerry uses strong encryption \u2013 part of its appeal to businesses and users \u2013 which prevents law enforcement and intelligence agencies from intercepting messages and snooping on user activity.\u201cPTA has issued directions to local mobile phone operators to close BlackBerry Enterprise Services from Nov. 30 on security reasons,\u201d said a PTA spokesperson.BlackBerry operates servers through which all internet traffic destined for its smartphones and tablets flows. The servers handle email, messaging, browsing and other communications services, encrypting the data and ensuring greater privacy.A recent report by Privacy International claims Pakistan\u2019s military intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), is seeking to dramatically expand its ability to intercept communications.Privacy International said the ISI had few legal checks on its surveillance practices.\u201cPakistan\u2019s intelligence agencies have abused their communications surveillance powers, including by spying on opposition politicians and supreme court judges. Widespread internet monitoring and censorship has also been used to target journalists, lawyers and activists,\u201d the report said.BlackBerry has faced similar problems in the past in India, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia and Indonesia.In 2010, BlackBerry services were banned within the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Bans were lifted in some states but with tightened restrictions. Prime minister David Cameron also considered banning BlackBerry\u2019s messaging services within the UK during the 2011 riots.BlackBerry said: \u201cBlackBerry provides the world\u2019s most secure communications platform to government, military and enterprise customers. Protecting that security is paramount to our mission. While we recognise the need to cooperate with lawful government investigative requests of criminal activity, we have never permitted wholesale access to our BES servers.\u201d \u2022 BlackBerry left on the line as UK users continue to hang up\u2022 BlackBerry Classic review: the phone diehards have been waiting for", "tags": ["BlackBerry corporation", "BlackBerry", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "Pakistan", "World news", "Privacy", "Surveillance", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan bans BlackBerry services  in privacy crackdown"},{"date": "2015-09-20T14:04:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The four helicopters trailing giant flags had passed an hour earlier; the tanks and fighter jets would come later. Now, it was the turn of a formation of sword-wielding, stamping, infantry in golden turbans to entertain the crowd packed into the grandstands halfway between the stately India Gate and the vast presidential palace in Delhi\u2019s centre.The Verma family \u2013 mother, father, son and daughter \u2013 had come from the eastern outskirts of the Indian capital to watch the show. \u201cIt was necessary to come. I am a proud Indian ... we have to remember our victories, our sacrifices. We have to remember what we can do, and what can be done. This will frighten some people and that is a good thing,\u201d said Priyaranjan Verma, 43, a finance manager for a freight firm.The \u201csome people\u201d he was referring to were the 190 million or so inhabitants of Pakistan, or at least their rulers.Sunday\u2019s parade marked the climax of a month of events in India commemorating the golden anniversary of the 1965 war with the neighbouring country. The partition of India had occurred 18 years before 1965, when the country gained independence from Britain. Pakistan and India have each claimed victory in the inconclusive 60s conflict, one of four they have fought. But over the decades both nations appear largely to have forgotten this war, with history books focusing on the more dramatic clashes of 1947, 1971 and 1999.It surprised some onlookers then when the government of Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist politician who won a landslide election last year after promising to bring economic development and make India \u201crespected\u201d, ordered a high-profile, month-long celebration of his nation\u2019s \u201cvictory\u201d in the 1965 war. The event is reported to have cost more than \u00a33m, and has included military displays in provincial towns, giant newspaper adverts, commemorative coins and stamps, as well as a team of naval personnel motorbiking 1,200 miles across India.Modi opened an exhibition in central Delhi devoted to the war, commenting that \u201cthe valour [and] sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1965 war remains etched in the memory of every Indian\u201d.The 60s conflict started when Pakistan fomented violence in the disputed Himalayan former princedom of Kashmir and ended with a UN-sponsored ceasefire followed by an exchange of captured territory. The war entailed fierce fighting, particularly between tank units, and it is thought both sides suffered more than 3,000 casualties.At the opening ceremony, Manohar Parrikar, India\u2019s defence minister, said the exhibition commemorated \u201cthe first major war that India won\u201d. He added: \u201cSome people raise the question whether India won, or was there a stalemate? Even as a nine-year-old kid I was of the firm opinion that India won hands down.\u201dSome historians\u2019 opinions differ. \u201cIt was inconclusive and that is recognised \u2026 even by those involved in the conflict. We actually gave up what little territory we seized and by no yardstick can it be claimed a victory,\u201d said Pallavi Raghavan, a specialist in relations between India and Pakistan, working at the Centre for Policy Research, in Delhi.However Dilip Hiro, a journalist and analyst, wrote in a recently published account of relations between India and Pakistan that \u201c[India] won by not losing \u2026 [Pakistan] gained nothing from a war it initiated\u201d.The war fought between the two states in 1971, however, was a conclusive defeat for Pakistan. A tentative peace process which followed a further confrontation in 1999 has been frozen since an attack in Mumbai by Pakistan-based militants in 2008. The attack in Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, targeted luxury hotels, commuters, a Jewish centre and tourist sites. There have been several intensive exchanges of artillery fire in the past year, while India continues to blame Pakistan for unrest in Kashmir.Pakistan reacted to the celebrations in India by upgrading its own annual Defence Day, which traditionally marks the 1965 war. Normally a relatively low-key affair, the ceremony held on 6 September was transformed into a big television event, with parachute drops by special forces, air displays and exhibitions of military hardware at various sites around the country.At the main ceremony, at army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the army screened video re-enactments of key battles against Islamist militants.Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief, Raheel Sharif, used the occasion to deliver a sharp warning to India that it would \u201cpay an unbearable cost\u201d if it ever resorted \u201cto any misadventure\u201d. He added: \u201cThe armed forces of Pakistan are fully capable of dealing with all types of internal and external threats, may it be conventional or sub-conventional, whether it is cold start or hot start. We are ready.\u201dHis speech was a riposte to the remarks of his opposite number, the general Dalbir Singh Suhag, who said India was ready for the \u201cswift, short, nature of future wars\u201d.India\u2019s army has long been planning for a \u201ccold start\u201d in any possible confrontation with Pakistan, which would allow it to quickly retaliate, fielding military units with little preparation and thus countering its smaller neighbour\u2019s ability to concentrate forces more rapidly.Sharif also struck a hard line on Kashmir, saying it could \u201cno longer be put on the back burner\u201d, although few foreign policy experts think Pakistan will ever gain control of the whole region.Amid the army\u2019s publicity drive there were signs of a surge of patriotism, even bellicosity, among sections of the public. A newspaper account of a lecture at Karachi University, at which the historian Akbar Zaidi questioned the popular narrative that Pakistan won the 1965 conflict, provoked a storm of anger on social media, with many alleging the newspaper was in the pocket of India.\u201cWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie [than] that Pakistan won the war,\u201d he was reported to have said. \u201cWe lost terribly in the 1965 war.\u201dRaghavan, the Indian historian, said the focus on conflicts ignored the long history of dialogue and exchange between the two nations. \u201cThe warfare has always been contained, never all-out. Each time there is an episode of violence it is followed by an episode of engagement. There is always much good will on both sides and the reasons for that are as durable as the reasons for going to war.\u201dThe sentiment was not universally shared at the parade ground in Delhi.\u201cThese are bad people but we are not frightened of them. Why should we be when we always win?\u201d said Verma, as he quickened his pace to avoid missing the motorbike display team.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "India and Pakistan loudly commemorate the war they both 'won '"},{"date": "2015-09-12T15:36:24Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "UK military personnel are suspected of having participated in the CIA\u2019s controversial drone war in Pakistan, which has resulted in thousands of fatalities.The Ministry of Defence has declined to answer a Freedom of Information request that would confirm whether its personnel have been embedded with US military teams operating drones in the skies above the country. The MoD said that it would neither confirm nor deny the situation because it might jeopardise \u201cinternational relations\u201d.However, it insisted that the UK had never conducted its own drone flights over Pakistan. When pressed, an MoD spokesman said: \u201cUK personnel embedded with the US air force have only flown remotely piloted aircraft systems in support of operations in Afghanistan, Libya and Iraq.\u201dThe carefully worded response leaves open the possibility that drones flown by UK personnel have been operating over the remote tribal regions of Pakistan that adjoin Afghanistan.The MoD\u2019s refusal to clarify appears at odds with comments made by defence secretary Michael Fallon, who has said that \u201cif we are asked to give details\u201d about UK personnel embedded with other countries \u201cwe, of course, do so\u201d.The RAF has long emphasised that its drones operate only in defined theatres of conflict, such as Afghanistan and Iraq, unlike the US which wages covert campaigns in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia. However, it has been confirmed that scores of UK personnel are based at the Creech airbase in Nevada, from where CIA drone missions are operated. A handful of UK personnel are known to have been embedded with US teams, raising questions about who ultimately has authority over them.Last year the former head of GCHQ, David Omand, called for safeguards to ensure that RAF pilots embedded at Creech did not \u201cinadvertently collude\u201d in drone actions \u201ccontrary to international law\u201d. Omand distinguished the UK drone programme from what he called the \u201csinister cultural and political salience\u201d of US drone operations.Jennifer Gibson of human rights group Reprieve, which filed the FOI request, said the refusal to confirm whether UK personnel had been involved was troubling. \u201cThis refusal suggests that we may be embroiled in the CIA\u2019s secret wars in far greater ways than was thought,\u201d Gibson said. \u201cGiven the CIA\u2019s drone programme in Pakistan has killed hundreds of civilians while operating without public accountability, that is cause for serious concern. What more don\u2019t we know?\u201dAccording to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, which tracks them, there have been 421 drone strikes in Pakistan, 370 of which have occurred under the Obama administration.Many are termed \u201csignature strikes,\u201d which are based upon patterns of behaviour, rather than confirmation that a target had been identified. The bureau estimates at least 2,400 people have been killed in the Pakistan strikes, of whom more than 420 may have been civilians.Confirmation that UK personnel have been involved in the CIA\u2019s Pakistan drone programme would raise fresh questions for the government after it revealed last week that two British militants had been killed in RAF drone strikes in Syria. David Cameron told MPs that the strikes were legal because they were taken to prevent attacks on the UK. But some experts questioned whether the alleged attacks were imminent, throwing into question their legitimacy.There has been a long-running debate in the US over the legality and efficacy of its drone programme. \u201cNumerous senior military and intelligence figures have warned that secret drone programmes of this kind can actually make the situation worse, not better,\u201d Gibson said. \u201cBefore heading down this path, we need a real debate, and real answers from the PM \u2026 We need to think very carefully about whether giving our government carte blanche to kill people anywhere in the world, without oversight, is really a good idea.\u201dThe UK\u2019s deployment of embedded drone pilots was not revealed until 2013 when defence minister Andrew Robathan told parliament that they had flown US unmanned aerial vehicles in Afghanistan. Robathan subsequently had to update his statement to confirm that they had also flown drones in Iraq and Libya under arrangements dating back to 2006.Meanwhile, Britain\u2019s largest Islamic organisation warned that last week\u2019s drone attack in Syria risked actually exacerbating the terror threat to the UK by potentially persuading more foreign fighters to join Islamic State (Isis).The Muslim Council of Britain, an umbrella body that represents 500 Islamic organisations around the country, said that the strike had prompted consternation and appeared to contravene the UK\u2019s adherence to the rule of law and due process.In its first statement on the incident, the MCB said that the killing of Reyaad Khan risked fuelling the \u201cnarrative of western duplicity\u201d that terrorism experts say helps Isis recruit new members.Cameron has defended the lethal strike by saying that his primary responsibility as prime minister was \u201cto keep the British people safe\u201d and that there was no other means available to stop Khan from directing terror attacks against the UK.The MCB statement said: \u201cThese drone strikes raise serious questions about parliamentary authority, which resoundingly rejected permission to attack in Syria.\u201cFurthermore, we are concerned that the drone attack targeted at British citizens does not fit well with our commitment to rule of law and due process. These are fundamental British values that we should all champion; not doing so may in fact inadvertently feed into terrorists\u2019 narrative of \u2018western duplicity\u2019.\u201d", "tags": ["World news", "Drones (military)", "Royal Air Force", "CIA", "US military", "US national security", "Pakistan"], "title": "Concern mounts over UK role in Pakistan drone attacks"},{"date": "2015-08-10T12:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The parents of victims of a child sexual abuse scandal that has horrified Pakistan say police tried to downplay the scale of crimes committed by a paedophile ring in a village in the country\u2019s east.It has been claimed that up to 280 girls and boys under the age of 14 were filmed being abused in Hussain Khan Wala, a village in Punjab province, near the Indian border. The videos were then used to blackmail their families as well as being sold to websites that host child abuse images. Locals say police were reluctant to take action until it became a national scandal.\u201cPolice did not even listen to me when I went to the station,\u201d said the mother of one rape victim, who did not want her name revealed and who first took video evidence to the police in July.\u201cThe first policeman said I should ask my daughter whether her rapist was her lover,\u201d the woman said.Public anger has been stoked by police claims over the weekend that far fewer victims were involved and that they were well into their teenage years at the time.Latif Ahmed Sara, a lawyer representing the victims, insisted every third house in the village was affected by the abuse.Last week there were clashes between police and hundreds of protesters who believe there was an attempt to protect a criminal group that they say includes influential local people.Police insist they took the case seriously from the start, appealing through local mosques for people with information to come forward. They say they have identified 10 culprits and made seven arrests so far.The disturbing videos have circulated widely within the village, which is thought to be home to about 5,000 people. Many villagers have copies of the videos on their mobile phones, which they have shown to members of the media who have visited in recent days.Officials who have viewed them say much of the abuse appeared to take place in a schoolroom and a farmhouse.The case has triggered a wave of disgust in Pakistan, where child abuse is widespread but rarely challenged, according to human rights groups.Responding to the public clamour, the chief minister of Punjab, the province where the abuse took place, ordered a judicial inquiry on Sunday. Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, has vowed to bring those involved to justice.There was criticism, however, over the failure of any politicians to visit the village, which lies just 30 miles south of the provincial capital Lahore.Police say the case was first reported on 1 July and that local mosques were immediately called on to appeal for information.Rai Babar, a district police officer, said the men in the videos were easily identifiable but that only 50 clips had been recovered, not the hundreds reported in the media.\u201cI assure you people involved in this inhuman act will be brought to justice,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is not something started in the near past, rather it is something related to the last seven or eight years.\u201dPolice have claimed the videos had been brought to light to discredit a group of people involved in a local land dispute.\u201cWhy did the police let criminals get away with doing this to our innocent kids for so long?\u201d asked Abdul Razaq, father of one of the victims. Razaq added that his son had been threatened to keep quiet or risk the video of his abuse being made public.\u201cThey only took action when the media raised the story up,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Child protection", "Children", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan police accused of downplaying child sexual abuse scandal"},{"date": "2015-07-27T11:11:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "When the weekend began, my main concern was the impending execution of a mentally ill man. Khizar Hayat is schizophrenic, and his illness has been exacerbated by 17 years spent on Pakistan\u2019s death row. Around 2008, he took a terrible decline. He started saying that the world was coming to an end because the Americans had landed on the moon. He began to think that his mother had been a Pharaoh\u2019s Queen. Related: Justice in Pakistan: \"The government is hanging people left, right and centre\" No doubt the two dates he has had with the hangman in the last eight weeks have not helped either, although he has little rational comprehension of his plight. In May he came within several hours of execution, and last week he received another \u2018black warrant\u2019 informing him he would walk to the gallows at 4.30am next Tuesday morning.Due to the exceptional work of Sarah Belal and the Justice Project of Pakistan (JPP), as well as the courageous application of the rule of law by district and sessions Judge Tariq Iftikar Ahmad, Khizar\u2019s latest dance with death was delayed on Saturday afternoon to allow time for a proper medical evaluation. And yet, within 30 minutes, we heard that the next in line \u2013 slated for execution dawn on Wednesday \u2013 would be Abdul Basit: a paraplegic. In the gallows game of musical chairs, he is the one in the wheelchair. I spent Saturday evening reading his file. Whether he even committed the crime described seems questionable, though there is not time to do the necessary investigation in the next 48 hours. Abdul was perfectly fit when he went to prison in 2008, but in 2010 he became very sick. He cannot stand with the noose around his neck, so will they hang his wheelchair along with him?The prison did not give him sufficient health care, and it was a month before he was diagnosed with tuberculous (TB) meningitis. By then he was in a coma, and not long afterwards he was permanently in a wheelchair with a damaged spinal cord, lucky to have survived at all. Setting aside the issue of whether he was guilty in the first place, the question is whether a prison in the twenty first century should be killing someone who they have already come close to killing once. Leaving that aside, how do the authorities propose to do it? The Pakistan prison code provides that \u201ca person who carries out the execution shall be paid rupees ten per execution out of the contingencies.\u201d At current rates, that translates to a little more than six pence.But they will need several six pences, for the hangman will not be able to kill Abdul by himself. Abdul cannot walk to the gallows, so there will be the unedifying spectacle of them dragging him there.Due to his paralysis, he can no longer control his sphincter, so no matter how much courage he shows he will not be able to hold his bowels. Will they give him continence pads? He cannot stand with the noose around his neck, so all their morbid estimates of how long a \u201cdrop\u201d he needs to die will be for naught. Perhaps they will hang his wheelchair along with him?If these were the first two people \u2013 one a schizophrenic and the other a paraplegic \u2013 carefully selected for execution after the month-long Ramadan hiatus, we can only wonder who is going to be next. One of the many juveniles? A pregnant woman perhaps? Certainly, there seem to be plenty of innocent people among the 8,261 people on Pakistan\u2019s death row.In the name of all that is decent, it is time for the Pakistan president to call a halt to this grisly experiment with the gallows. Meanwhile, the many honourable judges in Pakistan must follow Judge Ahmad\u2019s example in enforcing the rule of law, starting with Abdul Basit. I have watched several of my clients being executed, and the question remains: why do we kill people who we think killed people, to show that killing people is wrong?Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Pakistan", "Capital punishment", "Human rights", "Law", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan urged to halt execution of severely disabled prisoner"},{"date": "2015-07-16T13:49:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "India and Pakistan have traded blame for a series of firefights and shelling over the past two days along their border in the disputed Kashmir region that killed five civilians and wounded nine people.On Thursday, four people were killed and five wounded in artillery fire that struck Pakistani villages near the eastern city of Sialkot. Islamabad said India was responsible for the casualties.India\u2019s paramilitary Border Security Force, meanwhile, blamed Pakistan for shooting at an Indian border post and for firing mortar shells that landed in a border village on Wednesday, killing one woman and wounding four people, including a soldier at a border post.Pakistan also claimed that an Indian spy drone had violated its airspace on Wednesday and that the Pakistani military shot it down. India\u2019s army rejected that allegation, saying none of its drones \u201ccrossed into the Pakistani side\u201d.A senior officer of India\u2019s Border Security Force said skirmishes between the two sides continued on Thursday morning and that Indian troops only responded to safeguard Indian villagers from Pakistani mortar shells.  On Thursday, both Islamabad and Delhi summoned each other\u2019s diplomatic envoys in protest at the latest exchanges. Pakistan also denounced the alleged violation of its airspace.India\u2019s foreign secretary, S Jaishankar, on Thursday insisted that all firefights and mortar shelling over the past two days were initiated by Pakistani troops. He told reporters that the type of drone Pakistan claimed it had downed was not of Indian design or part of India\u2019s arsenal.The latest exchange of fire came despite a meeting of the two countries\u2019 prime ministers last week on the sidelines of a summit in Russia in an effort to ease tensions.India and Pakistan have fought two of their three wars over competing claims to Kashmir. A 2003 ceasefire has largely held despite small but regular skirmishes, which the two sides routinely blame on one another.While the highly militarised line of control in Kashmir is guarded by the armies of India and Pakistan, each country keeps a separate paramilitary border force guarding their lower-altitude frontier defined by coils of razor wire that snake across foothills populated by ancient villages, tangled bushes and fields of rice and corn.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "World news", "Kashmir", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "India and Pakistan blame each other for fighting along border"},{"date": "2015-09-24T14:59:48Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Only 500,000 Pakistanis filed a tax return and paid income tax last year. This is disastrous for the economy. With no sustainable revenue, public debt is spiralling out of control. Despite a robust and thriving private sector, Pakistan is still one of the world\u2019s poorest countries; 30% of children are chronically malnourished.Almost half of government revenue is used to pay debt, which leaves little left for development. Pakistan needs to get better at collecting taxes. Why do so few people pay tax? A public survey by Adam Smith International reveals serious public grievances: people think their money will be misused, or that they should not pay taxes when elites, including politicians, dodge payment. The current tax system is complex, non-transparent and inefficient. Put simply, many people avoid paying tax because the system allows it; others feel they are already taxed a lot on things like fuel and electricity.The good news is people are willing to pay; but not to a flawed system. The bad news is reform efforts have either failed, or been short-lived. Political blockages have slowed down reform efforts and people are disengaged and frustrated. There needs to be greater public demand for a better, more equitable tax system. Advocacy group Research and Advocacy for the Advancement of Allied Reforms (Raftaar) has launched its first campaign that alerts Pakistanis to their role in solving the tax crisis. It engages the public by explaining the linkages between revenue collection and service delivery. Through increased public awareness and advocacy from policy-makers, the group is pushing the government to be accountable for increasing revenue and providing services. The group, funded by the UK\u2019s department for international development and facilitated by Adam Smith International, is advocating for a series of reforms. Currently, there are formal loopholes which allow tax exemptions in certain sectors; this is often politically motivated and leads to significant revenue losses. Raftaar is lobbying for parliamentarians to lead by example and publicly pledge to comply with their tax obligations and reduce unnecessary tax exemptions. It is also putting pressure on the government to remove duties on basic foods items, like wheat and rice. Reducing the price of such items will help lower the prevalence of chronic malnutrition. This is the kind of sustainable development Pakistan needs. To carry out these reforms, the government also needs to improve its legislative, policy and administrative capacity, at both the Federal and provincial level. Provincial reform is essential since revenue collection is decentralised and provinces have a mandate to collect more taxes, namely sales tax on services.Pakistan\u2019s economy depends on it. Its public debt has increased nearly threefold in seven years and public services are severely lacking. Unless equitable and transparent tax collection is prioritised, development will never be sustainable.Content on this page is paid for and provided by Adam Smith International, a sponsor of the Guardian Global Development Professionals Network", "tags": ["Adam Smith International partner zone"], "title": "Paying up in Pakistan"},{"date": "2015-09-14T12:02:10Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Hamid Mir knew one of the guests on his nightly television show had made a mistake the moment he blurted out the name of the country\u2019s army chief without due deference.\u201cHe just said \u2018Raheel Sharif, Raheel Sharif\u2019 without calling him general,\u201d Mir says of a recent episode of his influential Capital Talk programme. \u201cI knew immediately the words came out it would be cut.\u201dAt a time of intense pressure on the media to cooperate with an army public relations campaign that is burnishing the image of General Sharif, channels routinely edit out or drop the sound on the mildest criticism of the military.Even the country\u2019s only Nobel peace prize winner, the schoolgirl activist Malala Yousafzai, was briefly silenced in early August when she said in an interview with Aaj TV that the prime minister had told her he was unable to spend more money on education because of pressure to fund military operations.Mir fears that behind the pressure for self-censorship lurk \u201canti-democratic forces deliberately trying to undermine political institutions by giving more importance to the army.\u201dLeading journalists claim to have received indirect threats from army officials who warn them they are being targeted by terrorists or that their coverage is raising suspicions they have been compromised by the Indian intelligence service.There is little doubt the military has rehabilitated its public reputation after the damage done to its popularity in the final years of the rule of Pervez Musharraf, the coup-making general forced from power in 2007.Media workers say the current unbridled support for the army comes from the need to support the institution at a time when soldiers are dying in a war against Islamist militants. But it also reflects draconian new legal requirements placed on broadcasters. Last month the information ministry issued a sweeping code of conduct that made it a condition of a broadcaster\u2019s licence to not air material that \u201ccontains aspersions against the judiciary or armed forces\u201d.Television stations were also required to have a \u201cdelaying mechanism\u201d on live programmes to enforce the restrictions. Related: Geo TV's face-off with ISI spy agency \u2013 a subplot of a larger tussle in Pakistan Last week the Lahore high court ordered Pemra, the country\u2019s media regulator, to ban all coverage of the speeches and even photographs of the leader of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM), the country\u2019s fourth biggest political party, which is reeling from an army-led crackdown in Karachi.Altaf Hussain, who runs the MQM from self-exile in London, was accused in court of committing treason for issuing an incendiary speech in which he lambasted the army and hinted top generals were involved in corruption.Most media companies need little encouragement to stay on the right side of the army given memories of all-out war with Geo TV in April 2014. The popular channel triggered military fury when it aired accusations that the head of the army\u2019s intelligence wing had been behind the near fatal shooting of Mir, its star journalist. Cable television providers were encouraged to drop Geo from their lineup while advertisers deserted the channel.Mir said his bosses tell him to avoid controversial stories because it will \u201cmake trouble for colleagues\u201d. \u201cThey say mysterious people call the advertisers and tell them to stop advertising with Geo and then we won\u2019t be able to pay salaries on time,\u201d he said.Even to suggest Pakistan\u2019s army, with its long history of coups and indirect rule of the country, should stay out of politics is completely beyond the pale, said Mir.The media has given little attention in recent weeks to a supreme court investigation of well-founded allegations of corruption within the army\u2019s property empire. And there has been hardly any discussion of the slow progress in sending home the huge numbers of people displaced by operations against the Taliban in North Waziristan.While the media enthusiastically covers stories about corruption and incompetence among civilian politicians, General Sharif receives fawning coverage. Last week Kamran Khan, one of the country\u2019s most famous journalists, devoted much of his nightly show on Dunya News to what he claimed was a growing public clamour for General Sharif to be given a second term rather than be allowed to retire in November next year.Pakistani journalists credit the general in charge of the army\u2019s public relations department, Asim Bajwa, with crafting an image of Sharif as a dynamic general who was not afraid to take on the Pakistani Taliban.Footage of Sharif visiting frontline troops or receiving foreign leaders in his office regularly push the country\u2019s civilian leadership off the news bulletins. Related: The Hamid Mir case: 'In Pakistan, they used to censor journalists \u2013 now they shoot us' General Bajwa said his job was simply to \u201cshare genuine information with the people\u201d.\u201cWe are not asking the media to do this or that, or to censor anything,\u201d he said. \u201cPeople appreciate the work of the army because the reality on the ground is improving.\u201dAbbas Nasir, a former editor of Dawn, an English-language daily paper, said it was unlikely General Sharif would want a second term given the anger it would be likely to cause within the army. But overconfidence could yet lead to the repeat of the disastrous mistakes of the past.\u201cMy worry is this completely one-sided praise, if it gets to the head of some military leaders, may lead us back to mis-adventurism, whether that\u2019s a march on Islamabad or some sort of an attack on India,\u201d he said. \u201cIf you are constantly told you are great, sooner or later you will believe it.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Freedom of speech", "Journalist safety", "Press freedom", "Media"], "title": "Pakistan press freedom under pressure from army"},{"date": "2015-07-27T09:06:06Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Pakistan has banned BlackBerry\u2019s enterprise server and its internet and messaging services \u201cfor security reasons\u201d in a crackdown on privacy.Mobile phone operators were told by the Pakistan telecommunication authority on Friday that the BlackBerry services must be shut down by the start of December.BlackBerry uses strong encryption \u2013 part of its appeal to businesses and users \u2013 which prevents law enforcement and intelligence agencies from intercepting messages and snooping on user activity.\u201cPTA has issued directions to local mobile phone operators to close BlackBerry Enterprise Services from Nov. 30 on security reasons,\u201d said a PTA spokesperson.BlackBerry operates servers through which all internet traffic destined for its smartphones and tablets flows. The servers handle email, messaging, browsing and other communications services, encrypting the data and ensuring greater privacy.A recent report by Privacy International claims Pakistan\u2019s military intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), is seeking to dramatically expand its ability to intercept communications.Privacy International said the ISI had few legal checks on its surveillance practices.\u201cPakistan\u2019s intelligence agencies have abused their communications surveillance powers, including by spying on opposition politicians and supreme court judges. Widespread internet monitoring and censorship has also been used to target journalists, lawyers and activists,\u201d the report said.BlackBerry has faced similar problems in the past in India, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia and Indonesia.In 2010, BlackBerry services were banned within the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Bans were lifted in some states but with tightened restrictions. Prime minister David Cameron also considered banning BlackBerry\u2019s messaging services within the UK during the 2011 riots.BlackBerry said: \u201cBlackBerry provides the world\u2019s most secure communications platform to government, military and enterprise customers. Protecting that security is paramount to our mission. While we recognise the need to cooperate with lawful government investigative requests of criminal activity, we have never permitted wholesale access to our BES servers.\u201d \u2022 BlackBerry left on the line as UK users continue to hang up\u2022 BlackBerry Classic review: the phone diehards have been waiting for", "tags": ["BlackBerry corporation", "BlackBerry", "Data and computer security", "Technology", "Pakistan", "World news", "Privacy", "Surveillance", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Pakistan bans BlackBerry services  in privacy crackdown"},{"date": "2015-09-20T14:04:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The four helicopters trailing giant flags had passed an hour earlier; the tanks and fighter jets would come later. Now, it was the turn of a formation of sword-wielding, stamping, infantry in golden turbans to entertain the crowd packed into the grandstands halfway between the stately India Gate and the vast presidential palace in Delhi\u2019s centre.The Verma family \u2013 mother, father, son and daughter \u2013 had come from the eastern outskirts of the Indian capital to watch the show. \u201cIt was necessary to come. I am a proud Indian ... we have to remember our victories, our sacrifices. We have to remember what we can do, and what can be done. This will frighten some people and that is a good thing,\u201d said Priyaranjan Verma, 43, a finance manager for a freight firm.The \u201csome people\u201d he was referring to were the 190 million or so inhabitants of Pakistan, or at least their rulers.Sunday\u2019s parade marked the climax of a month of events in India commemorating the golden anniversary of the 1965 war with the neighbouring country. The partition of India had occurred 18 years before 1965, when the country gained independence from Britain. Pakistan and India have each claimed victory in the inconclusive 60s conflict, one of four they have fought. But over the decades both nations appear largely to have forgotten this war, with history books focusing on the more dramatic clashes of 1947, 1971 and 1999.It surprised some onlookers then when the government of Narendra Modi, the Hindu nationalist politician who won a landslide election last year after promising to bring economic development and make India \u201crespected\u201d, ordered a high-profile, month-long celebration of his nation\u2019s \u201cvictory\u201d in the 1965 war. The event is reported to have cost more than \u00a33m, and has included military displays in provincial towns, giant newspaper adverts, commemorative coins and stamps, as well as a team of naval personnel motorbiking 1,200 miles across India.Modi opened an exhibition in central Delhi devoted to the war, commenting that \u201cthe valour [and] sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1965 war remains etched in the memory of every Indian\u201d.The 60s conflict started when Pakistan fomented violence in the disputed Himalayan former princedom of Kashmir and ended with a UN-sponsored ceasefire followed by an exchange of captured territory. The war entailed fierce fighting, particularly between tank units, and it is thought both sides suffered more than 3,000 casualties.At the opening ceremony, Manohar Parrikar, India\u2019s defence minister, said the exhibition commemorated \u201cthe first major war that India won\u201d. He added: \u201cSome people raise the question whether India won, or was there a stalemate? Even as a nine-year-old kid I was of the firm opinion that India won hands down.\u201dSome historians\u2019 opinions differ. \u201cIt was inconclusive and that is recognised \u2026 even by those involved in the conflict. We actually gave up what little territory we seized and by no yardstick can it be claimed a victory,\u201d said Pallavi Raghavan, a specialist in relations between India and Pakistan, working at the Centre for Policy Research, in Delhi.However Dilip Hiro, a journalist and analyst, wrote in a recently published account of relations between India and Pakistan that \u201c[India] won by not losing \u2026 [Pakistan] gained nothing from a war it initiated\u201d.The war fought between the two states in 1971, however, was a conclusive defeat for Pakistan. A tentative peace process which followed a further confrontation in 1999 has been frozen since an attack in Mumbai by Pakistan-based militants in 2008. The attack in Mumbai, India\u2019s commercial capital, targeted luxury hotels, commuters, a Jewish centre and tourist sites. There have been several intensive exchanges of artillery fire in the past year, while India continues to blame Pakistan for unrest in Kashmir.Pakistan reacted to the celebrations in India by upgrading its own annual Defence Day, which traditionally marks the 1965 war. Normally a relatively low-key affair, the ceremony held on 6 September was transformed into a big television event, with parachute drops by special forces, air displays and exhibitions of military hardware at various sites around the country.At the main ceremony, at army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the army screened video re-enactments of key battles against Islamist militants.Pakistan\u2019s powerful army chief, Raheel Sharif, used the occasion to deliver a sharp warning to India that it would \u201cpay an unbearable cost\u201d if it ever resorted \u201cto any misadventure\u201d. He added: \u201cThe armed forces of Pakistan are fully capable of dealing with all types of internal and external threats, may it be conventional or sub-conventional, whether it is cold start or hot start. We are ready.\u201dHis speech was a riposte to the remarks of his opposite number, the general Dalbir Singh Suhag, who said India was ready for the \u201cswift, short, nature of future wars\u201d.India\u2019s army has long been planning for a \u201ccold start\u201d in any possible confrontation with Pakistan, which would allow it to quickly retaliate, fielding military units with little preparation and thus countering its smaller neighbour\u2019s ability to concentrate forces more rapidly.Sharif also struck a hard line on Kashmir, saying it could \u201cno longer be put on the back burner\u201d, although few foreign policy experts think Pakistan will ever gain control of the whole region.Amid the army\u2019s publicity drive there were signs of a surge of patriotism, even bellicosity, among sections of the public. A newspaper account of a lecture at Karachi University, at which the historian Akbar Zaidi questioned the popular narrative that Pakistan won the 1965 conflict, provoked a storm of anger on social media, with many alleging the newspaper was in the pocket of India.\u201cWith the celebration of the victory in the 1965 war round the corner, there can be no bigger lie [than] that Pakistan won the war,\u201d he was reported to have said. \u201cWe lost terribly in the 1965 war.\u201dRaghavan, the Indian historian, said the focus on conflicts ignored the long history of dialogue and exchange between the two nations. \u201cThe warfare has always been contained, never all-out. Each time there is an episode of violence it is followed by an episode of engagement. There is always much good will on both sides and the reasons for that are as durable as the reasons for going to war.\u201dThe sentiment was not universally shared at the parade ground in Delhi.\u201cThese are bad people but we are not frightened of them. Why should we be when we always win?\u201d said Verma, as he quickened his pace to avoid missing the motorbike display team.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "India and Pakistan loudly commemorate the war they both 'won '"},{"date": "2015-09-12T15:36:24Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "UK military personnel are suspected of having participated in the CIA\u2019s controversial drone war in Pakistan, which has resulted in thousands of fatalities.The Ministry of Defence has declined to answer a Freedom of Information request that would confirm whether its personnel have been embedded with US military teams operating drones in the skies above the country. The MoD said that it would neither confirm nor deny the situation because it might jeopardise \u201cinternational relations\u201d.However, it insisted that the UK had never conducted its own drone flights over Pakistan. When pressed, an MoD spokesman said: \u201cUK personnel embedded with the US air force have only flown remotely piloted aircraft systems in support of operations in Afghanistan, Libya and Iraq.\u201dThe carefully worded response leaves open the possibility that drones flown by UK personnel have been operating over the remote tribal regions of Pakistan that adjoin Afghanistan.The MoD\u2019s refusal to clarify appears at odds with comments made by defence secretary Michael Fallon, who has said that \u201cif we are asked to give details\u201d about UK personnel embedded with other countries \u201cwe, of course, do so\u201d.The RAF has long emphasised that its drones operate only in defined theatres of conflict, such as Afghanistan and Iraq, unlike the US which wages covert campaigns in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia. However, it has been confirmed that scores of UK personnel are based at the Creech airbase in Nevada, from where CIA drone missions are operated. A handful of UK personnel are known to have been embedded with US teams, raising questions about who ultimately has authority over them.Last year the former head of GCHQ, David Omand, called for safeguards to ensure that RAF pilots embedded at Creech did not \u201cinadvertently collude\u201d in drone actions \u201ccontrary to international law\u201d. Omand distinguished the UK drone programme from what he called the \u201csinister cultural and political salience\u201d of US drone operations.Jennifer Gibson of human rights group Reprieve, which filed the FOI request, said the refusal to confirm whether UK personnel had been involved was troubling. \u201cThis refusal suggests that we may be embroiled in the CIA\u2019s secret wars in far greater ways than was thought,\u201d Gibson said. \u201cGiven the CIA\u2019s drone programme in Pakistan has killed hundreds of civilians while operating without public accountability, that is cause for serious concern. What more don\u2019t we know?\u201dAccording to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, which tracks them, there have been 421 drone strikes in Pakistan, 370 of which have occurred under the Obama administration.Many are termed \u201csignature strikes,\u201d which are based upon patterns of behaviour, rather than confirmation that a target had been identified. The bureau estimates at least 2,400 people have been killed in the Pakistan strikes, of whom more than 420 may have been civilians.Confirmation that UK personnel have been involved in the CIA\u2019s Pakistan drone programme would raise fresh questions for the government after it revealed last week that two British militants had been killed in RAF drone strikes in Syria. David Cameron told MPs that the strikes were legal because they were taken to prevent attacks on the UK. But some experts questioned whether the alleged attacks were imminent, throwing into question their legitimacy.There has been a long-running debate in the US over the legality and efficacy of its drone programme. \u201cNumerous senior military and intelligence figures have warned that secret drone programmes of this kind can actually make the situation worse, not better,\u201d Gibson said. \u201cBefore heading down this path, we need a real debate, and real answers from the PM \u2026 We need to think very carefully about whether giving our government carte blanche to kill people anywhere in the world, without oversight, is really a good idea.\u201dThe UK\u2019s deployment of embedded drone pilots was not revealed until 2013 when defence minister Andrew Robathan told parliament that they had flown US unmanned aerial vehicles in Afghanistan. Robathan subsequently had to update his statement to confirm that they had also flown drones in Iraq and Libya under arrangements dating back to 2006.Meanwhile, Britain\u2019s largest Islamic organisation warned that last week\u2019s drone attack in Syria risked actually exacerbating the terror threat to the UK by potentially persuading more foreign fighters to join Islamic State (Isis).The Muslim Council of Britain, an umbrella body that represents 500 Islamic organisations around the country, said that the strike had prompted consternation and appeared to contravene the UK\u2019s adherence to the rule of law and due process.In its first statement on the incident, the MCB said that the killing of Reyaad Khan risked fuelling the \u201cnarrative of western duplicity\u201d that terrorism experts say helps Isis recruit new members.Cameron has defended the lethal strike by saying that his primary responsibility as prime minister was \u201cto keep the British people safe\u201d and that there was no other means available to stop Khan from directing terror attacks against the UK.The MCB statement said: \u201cThese drone strikes raise serious questions about parliamentary authority, which resoundingly rejected permission to attack in Syria.\u201cFurthermore, we are concerned that the drone attack targeted at British citizens does not fit well with our commitment to rule of law and due process. These are fundamental British values that we should all champion; not doing so may in fact inadvertently feed into terrorists\u2019 narrative of \u2018western duplicity\u2019.\u201d", "tags": ["World news", "Drones (military)", "Royal Air Force", "CIA", "US military", "US national security", "Pakistan"], "title": "Concern mounts over UK role in Pakistan drone attacks"},{"date": "2015-08-10T12:01:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The parents of victims of a child sexual abuse scandal that has horrified Pakistan say police tried to downplay the scale of crimes committed by a paedophile ring in a village in the country\u2019s east.It has been claimed that up to 280 girls and boys under the age of 14 were filmed being abused in Hussain Khan Wala, a village in Punjab province, near the Indian border. The videos were then used to blackmail their families as well as being sold to websites that host child abuse images. Locals say police were reluctant to take action until it became a national scandal.\u201cPolice did not even listen to me when I went to the station,\u201d said the mother of one rape victim, who did not want her name revealed and who first took video evidence to the police in July.\u201cThe first policeman said I should ask my daughter whether her rapist was her lover,\u201d the woman said.Public anger has been stoked by police claims over the weekend that far fewer victims were involved and that they were well into their teenage years at the time.Latif Ahmed Sara, a lawyer representing the victims, insisted every third house in the village was affected by the abuse.Last week there were clashes between police and hundreds of protesters who believe there was an attempt to protect a criminal group that they say includes influential local people.Police insist they took the case seriously from the start, appealing through local mosques for people with information to come forward. They say they have identified 10 culprits and made seven arrests so far.The disturbing videos have circulated widely within the village, which is thought to be home to about 5,000 people. Many villagers have copies of the videos on their mobile phones, which they have shown to members of the media who have visited in recent days.Officials who have viewed them say much of the abuse appeared to take place in a schoolroom and a farmhouse.The case has triggered a wave of disgust in Pakistan, where child abuse is widespread but rarely challenged, according to human rights groups.Responding to the public clamour, the chief minister of Punjab, the province where the abuse took place, ordered a judicial inquiry on Sunday. Pakistan\u2019s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, has vowed to bring those involved to justice.There was criticism, however, over the failure of any politicians to visit the village, which lies just 30 miles south of the provincial capital Lahore.Police say the case was first reported on 1 July and that local mosques were immediately called on to appeal for information.Rai Babar, a district police officer, said the men in the videos were easily identifiable but that only 50 clips had been recovered, not the hundreds reported in the media.\u201cI assure you people involved in this inhuman act will be brought to justice,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is not something started in the near past, rather it is something related to the last seven or eight years.\u201dPolice have claimed the videos had been brought to light to discredit a group of people involved in a local land dispute.\u201cWhy did the police let criminals get away with doing this to our innocent kids for so long?\u201d asked Abdul Razaq, father of one of the victims. Razaq added that his son had been threatened to keep quiet or risk the video of his abuse being made public.\u201cThey only took action when the media raised the story up,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Child protection", "Children", "Society"], "title": "Pakistan police accused of downplaying child sexual abuse scandal"},{"date": "2015-07-27T11:11:13Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "When the weekend began, my main concern was the impending execution of a mentally ill man. Khizar Hayat is schizophrenic, and his illness has been exacerbated by 17 years spent on Pakistan\u2019s death row. Around 2008, he took a terrible decline. He started saying that the world was coming to an end because the Americans had landed on the moon. He began to think that his mother had been a Pharaoh\u2019s Queen. Related: Justice in Pakistan: \"The government is hanging people left, right and centre\" No doubt the two dates he has had with the hangman in the last eight weeks have not helped either, although he has little rational comprehension of his plight. In May he came within several hours of execution, and last week he received another \u2018black warrant\u2019 informing him he would walk to the gallows at 4.30am next Tuesday morning.Due to the exceptional work of Sarah Belal and the Justice Project of Pakistan (JPP), as well as the courageous application of the rule of law by district and sessions Judge Tariq Iftikar Ahmad, Khizar\u2019s latest dance with death was delayed on Saturday afternoon to allow time for a proper medical evaluation. And yet, within 30 minutes, we heard that the next in line \u2013 slated for execution dawn on Wednesday \u2013 would be Abdul Basit: a paraplegic. In the gallows game of musical chairs, he is the one in the wheelchair. I spent Saturday evening reading his file. Whether he even committed the crime described seems questionable, though there is not time to do the necessary investigation in the next 48 hours. Abdul was perfectly fit when he went to prison in 2008, but in 2010 he became very sick. He cannot stand with the noose around his neck, so will they hang his wheelchair along with him?The prison did not give him sufficient health care, and it was a month before he was diagnosed with tuberculous (TB) meningitis. By then he was in a coma, and not long afterwards he was permanently in a wheelchair with a damaged spinal cord, lucky to have survived at all. Setting aside the issue of whether he was guilty in the first place, the question is whether a prison in the twenty first century should be killing someone who they have already come close to killing once. Leaving that aside, how do the authorities propose to do it? The Pakistan prison code provides that \u201ca person who carries out the execution shall be paid rupees ten per execution out of the contingencies.\u201d At current rates, that translates to a little more than six pence.But they will need several six pences, for the hangman will not be able to kill Abdul by himself. Abdul cannot walk to the gallows, so there will be the unedifying spectacle of them dragging him there.Due to his paralysis, he can no longer control his sphincter, so no matter how much courage he shows he will not be able to hold his bowels. Will they give him continence pads? He cannot stand with the noose around his neck, so all their morbid estimates of how long a \u201cdrop\u201d he needs to die will be for naught. Perhaps they will hang his wheelchair along with him?If these were the first two people \u2013 one a schizophrenic and the other a paraplegic \u2013 carefully selected for execution after the month-long Ramadan hiatus, we can only wonder who is going to be next. One of the many juveniles? A pregnant woman perhaps? Certainly, there seem to be plenty of innocent people among the 8,261 people on Pakistan\u2019s death row.In the name of all that is decent, it is time for the Pakistan president to call a halt to this grisly experiment with the gallows. Meanwhile, the many honourable judges in Pakistan must follow Judge Ahmad\u2019s example in enforcing the rule of law, starting with Abdul Basit. I have watched several of my clients being executed, and the question remains: why do we kill people who we think killed people, to show that killing people is wrong?Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Pakistan", "Capital punishment", "Human rights", "Law", "South and Central Asia", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan urged to halt execution of severely disabled prisoner"},{"date": "2015-07-16T13:49:12Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "India and Pakistan have traded blame for a series of firefights and shelling over the past two days along their border in the disputed Kashmir region that killed five civilians and wounded nine people.On Thursday, four people were killed and five wounded in artillery fire that struck Pakistani villages near the eastern city of Sialkot. Islamabad said India was responsible for the casualties.India\u2019s paramilitary Border Security Force, meanwhile, blamed Pakistan for shooting at an Indian border post and for firing mortar shells that landed in a border village on Wednesday, killing one woman and wounding four people, including a soldier at a border post.Pakistan also claimed that an Indian spy drone had violated its airspace on Wednesday and that the Pakistani military shot it down. India\u2019s army rejected that allegation, saying none of its drones \u201ccrossed into the Pakistani side\u201d.A senior officer of India\u2019s Border Security Force said skirmishes between the two sides continued on Thursday morning and that Indian troops only responded to safeguard Indian villagers from Pakistani mortar shells.  On Thursday, both Islamabad and Delhi summoned each other\u2019s diplomatic envoys in protest at the latest exchanges. Pakistan also denounced the alleged violation of its airspace.India\u2019s foreign secretary, S Jaishankar, on Thursday insisted that all firefights and mortar shelling over the past two days were initiated by Pakistani troops. He told reporters that the type of drone Pakistan claimed it had downed was not of Indian design or part of India\u2019s arsenal.The latest exchange of fire came despite a meeting of the two countries\u2019 prime ministers last week on the sidelines of a summit in Russia in an effort to ease tensions.India and Pakistan have fought two of their three wars over competing claims to Kashmir. A 2003 ceasefire has largely held despite small but regular skirmishes, which the two sides routinely blame on one another.While the highly militarised line of control in Kashmir is guarded by the armies of India and Pakistan, each country keeps a separate paramilitary border force guarding their lower-altitude frontier defined by coils of razor wire that snake across foothills populated by ancient villages, tangled bushes and fields of rice and corn.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "India", "World news", "Kashmir", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "India and Pakistan blame each other for fighting along border"},{"date": "2015-07-01T18:09:54Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "When Nabeel Khalid joined the 26 million people around the world to superimpose a rainbow flag over his Facebook profile picture, he did not expect a tirade of abuse for showing support for same-sex marriage.But the meme that swept the social networking site in the wake of last week\u2019s decision by the US supreme court to legalise same-sex unions has not gone down well in Pakistan.\u201cThe reaction was extremely negative with a lot of close friends, colleagues and ex-colleagues just completely unable to handle it,\u201d said Khalid, an IT worker from Lahore. \u201cThey could not accept that someone who is married is supporting something they say is away from our culture and our religion.\u201dThe online debate has seen supporters of marriage equality accused of abandoning Islam, as well as claims that bestiality will be next to be legalised, and the widespread circulation of Qur\u2019anic verses condemning homosexuality.Most observers say social intolerance has grown in Pakistan, a religiously conservative country that has seen radical groups working hard to spread a more militant version of the creed in recent decades. Surveys find the country\u2019s huge population of young people tends to be conservative: one poll found nearly 40% wanted the country to be run according to Sharia law. But Marvi Sirmed, an outspoken social activist, says some people are becoming more liberal, particularly on the subject of gay rights. \u201cIt is a very, very pleasant surprise for me that so many people on social media are actually supporting it, because that was certainly not the case just five years ago,\u201d she said.In 2011 Sirmed was the object of furious denunciations, after she appeared on a television show to defend the US embassy in Islamabad for hosting a \u201cPride celebration\u201d for Pakistani lesbian, gay and transgender activists.\u201cIt is still extremely difficult to even talk about these issues, but it is getting a little better,\u201d she said.The US supreme court decision has attracted little coverage in the mainstream media, but considerable scrutiny online.\u201cThe generation growing up with the internet have more access to the outside world,\u201d said Khalid, who lives in Lahore with his wife.\u201cMy virtual life is mostly outside Pakistan, but on Facebook people inside the country can see what I am doing and they don\u2019t necessarily understand.\u201dOnly 32 million of Pakistan\u2019s estimated 200 million people are thought to have access to the internet, although it is growing fast as smart phones become more popular.Emrys Schoemaker, a researcher from the London School of Economics conducting field research on internet use in Pakistan, said a growing number of poorer people are using Facebook for the first time, as telecom companies offer free access to the site.\u201cA lot of people don\u2019t know what the flag stands for,\u201d he said. \u201cOne day labourer said he felt tricked after liking a friend\u2019s rainbow profile picture and later discovering it was for gay marriage.\u201dOn Wednesday, a call for the liberal-minded Express Tribune newspaper to be shut down was one of the most popular Twitter trends in Pakistan.The source of the online anger was a blog on the newspaper\u2019s website entitled \u201cMy husband is gay \u2013 A difficult truth\u201d. Hamza Ali Abbasi, a film star followed by more than 60,000 people on Facebook, declared himself \u201cdisappointed at people in Pakistan celebrating a behaviour that is taboo even in animals\u201d and changed his profile picture to a rainbow flag with a red line across it.\u201cIt\u2019s strange how a law passed in a land far away has generated a debate about a topic which is somewhat irrelevant in Pakistan,\u201d he later mused in a Facebook note.\u201cNow we know that intolerant fanatics exist who wear western clothes, have utmost exposure, education and are very eloquent in their English skills,\u201d he wrote of the people who criticised his stance. Homosexuality may be illegal in Pakistan, but can be highly visible at times. A large transgender community make their living on the streets by begging and prostitution.In 2009, the supreme court ruled transgender people had the right to identify themselves as a third gender on their national identification cards and ordered the government to help find them work. Mohsin Hamid, a Lahore-based author, said that while there was \u201ca lot of homosexuality inside Pakistan, it is not an issue people talk about\u201d.\u201cIn Pakistan there is a kind of societal nervous laughter on the subject of homosexuality,\u201d he said. \u201cIt evokes smiles and giggles, but there aren\u2019t many public formats in which to have a serious conversation about it.\u201d", "tags": ["Pakistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Gay marriage", "LGBT rights", "Life and style", "Marriage", "Same-sex marriage (US)", "Society", "Social networking", "US news", "Facebook", "Technology", "Media"], "title": "Pakistan gets flustered over Facebook's gay rights meme"},{"date": "2015-12-03T16:55:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Thirty-one migrants made a round trip from Greece to Pakistan on Thursday after the government in Islamabad said the EU had illegally deported them.Although 19 out of the 50 deportees who came in on a charter plane were taken into custody in Pakistan, the remainder stayed on board for almost two hours before returning to Greece after the government said they did not have the correct paperwork.It was the latest salvo in a row between the EU and Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, the Pakistani interior minister angry about the treatment of his compatriots by European states struggling with a migrant crisis. Related: Detain refugees arriving in Europe for 18 months, says Tusk \u201cPakistani laws have been violated, which absolutely cannot be allowed,\u201d Khan said in a statement.The issue has been a running source of tension with the EU. In early November Khan suspended an agreement on readmitting illegal detainees, saying two EU states were sending Pakistanis home on \u201cbaseless terrorism charges\u201d.\u201cThose who give lectures on fundamental rights to us should also respect fundamental rights of Pakistanis,\u201d he said at the time.Last week Dimitris Avramopoulos, a Greek politician and the EU commissioner responsible for migration policy, visited Pakistan to try to soothe concerns.But on Thursday Pakistan said the EU was still not honouring pledges to only return those whose identity had been confirmed, saying the men flown back to Greece were \u201cunverified deportees\u201d.The EU office in Islamabad said all 50 people on the flight organised by Frontex, the agency in charge of Europe\u2019s borders, had been given passports to travel by the Pakistani embassies in Greece, Bulgaria and Austria.It said Pakistan\u2019s demand that the migrants should also have their national identity card numbers was impossible for EU officials to organise and that it was not part of the agreement struck with Pakistan.\u201cThe list of names [of the deportees] had been sent to the Pakistani authorities earlier, providing sufficient time to the relevant Pakistani authorities to find the missing numbers for the returnees,\u201d the EU said.Last year, about 21,000 Pakistanis who were in Europe without permission were ordered to return home. An estimated 50,000 Pakistanis travel legally to Europe for work each year.Clashes erupted on the Greek-Macedonian border on Tuesday when Macedonian police fired teargas to repel hundreds of mostly Pakistani migrants trying to push through a new border fence.Some of them later blocked the crossing for Syrians and others who would have been let in as war refugees. \u201cIf we don\u2019t cross, no one does!\u201d they chanted.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Migration", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Greece", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Pakistan sends deported migrants back to Greece"},{"date": "2015-12-03T16:55:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Thirty-one migrants made a round trip from Greece to Pakistan on Thursday after the government in Islamabad said the EU had illegally deported them.Although 19 out of the 50 deportees who came in on a charter plane were taken into custody in Pakistan, the remainder stayed on board for almost two hours before returning to Greece after the government said they did not have the correct paperwork.It was the latest salvo in a row between the EU and Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, the Pakistani interior minister angry about the treatment of his compatriots by European states struggling with a migrant crisis. Related: Detain refugees arriving in Europe for 18 months, says Tusk \u201cPakistani laws have been violated, which absolutely cannot be allowed,\u201d Khan said in a statement.The issue has been a running source of tension with the EU. In early November Khan suspended an agreement on readmitting illegal detainees, saying two EU states were sending Pakistanis home on \u201cbaseless terrorism charges\u201d.\u201cThose who give lectures on fundamental rights to us should also respect fundamental rights of Pakistanis,\u201d he said at the time.Last week Dimitris Avramopoulos, a Greek politician and the EU commissioner responsible for migration policy, visited Pakistan to try to soothe concerns.But on Thursday Pakistan said the EU was still not honouring pledges to only return those whose identity had been confirmed, saying the men flown back to Greece were \u201cunverified deportees\u201d.The EU office in Islamabad said all 50 people on the flight organised by Frontex, the agency in charge of Europe\u2019s borders, had been given passports to travel by the Pakistani embassies in Greece, Bulgaria and Austria.It said Pakistan\u2019s demand that the migrants should also have their national identity card numbers was impossible for EU officials to organise and that it was not part of the agreement struck with Pakistan.\u201cThe list of names [of the deportees] had been sent to the Pakistani authorities earlier, providing sufficient time to the relevant Pakistani authorities to find the missing numbers for the returnees,\u201d the EU said.Last year, about 21,000 Pakistanis who were in Europe without permission were ordered to return home. An estimated 50,000 Pakistanis travel legally to Europe for work each year.Clashes erupted on the Greek-Macedonian border on Tuesday when Macedonian police fired teargas to repel hundreds of mostly Pakistani migrants trying to push through a new border fence.Some of them later blocked the crossing for Syrians and others who would have been let in as war refugees. \u201cIf we don\u2019t cross, no one does!\u201d they chanted.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Migration", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Greece", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Pakistan sends deported migrants back to Greece"},{"date": "2015-12-28T07:00:22Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The raid that killed Osama bin Laden in May 2011 was blamed for a spike in polio in Pakistan because some used the CIA\u2019s involvement in the mission \u2013 it set up a fake immunisation campaign in order to obtain DNA samples \u2013 as an excuse to target vaccinators under the pretence that they were associated with the US.Yet now the World Health Organisation believes the world is on the verge of becoming free of the disease.Polio was once one of the most feared diseases but after a global immunisation programme, delivered in the UK through sugar cubes, it was eradicated in most countries in the 1990s.Pakistan and Afghanistan are the only two countries where polio is still endemic, but in the past year there has been a dramatic drop in cases to 66 in the two countries, compared with 332 cases in nine countries in 2014. \u201cWhen we look back on 2015, it may well be seen as the year the tide irreversibly turned on polio,\u201d says the WHO. There have, however, been several false dawns since polio eradication was set as a target in 1988, when the disease was endemic in more than 125 countries. Related: Africa's year free of polio is giant step towards eradication In August, Africa marked a year free of the disease. But in September, two children in Ukraine were paralysed after contracting polio in the first cases of the disease in Europe since 2010.Until two years ago, Pakistan and Afghanistan remained problematic, with the virus resurgent in conflict zones. There remains a risk of regional flare-ups.The fact that a health programme could be used for gathering intelligence provided \u201can excuse for people who wanted to promote suspicion\u201d, said Dr Hamid Jafari, director of the global polio eradication initiative at the WHO.\u201cIn 2013, in almost every campaign there was an attack, sometimes successful,\u201d he said. \u201cThe CIA certainly gave the excuse to these militants who were using this Osama bin Laden death to attack.\u201dA fundamental change in approach aimed at reducing health workers\u2019 exposure, combined with improved security and community engagement, is now paying off. A new approach \u2013 switching vaccination programmes from four days to one \u2013 has had an immediate impact.\u201cIn the context of polio, the timing of the vaccination programme, how much you publicise them, the length of time you expose your workers to a threat, is all considered,\u201d said Jafari. Fewer armed guards walk around with individual teams; sometimes villages might be cordoned off for a few hours to create a safe zone for vaccinators. One of the biggest factors in the increase in vaccination in high-risk areas is giving the job to local women, who will be trusted by parents of young children. \u201cThe most important learning in the context of Pakistan is the engagement and empowerment of the community themselves, when the programme engages with the power structures within the community. Leaders in the community take a big part of the control of the programme into the hands of the community, which then provides its own security,\u201d added Jafari.Latest figures for Pakistan show 49 cases for 2015, compared with 282 in 2014.The government is now redoubling its efforts in critical areas such as North Waziristan where improved security is allowing displaced families to return home. The WHO hopes that Pakistan and Afghanistan will be polio-free by mid-2016, with global eradication targeted for 2019.", "tags": ["Global development", "Polio", "Pakistan", "Health", "Vaccines and immunisation", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "World Health Organisation"], "title": "Pakistan success stories increase hopes of global polio eradication"},{"date": "2015-12-03T16:55:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Thirty-one migrants made a round trip from Greece to Pakistan on Thursday after the government in Islamabad said the EU had illegally deported them.Although 19 out of the 50 deportees who came in on a charter plane were taken into custody in Pakistan, the remainder stayed on board for almost two hours before returning to Greece after the government said they did not have the correct paperwork.It was the latest salvo in a row between the EU and Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, the Pakistani interior minister angry about the treatment of his compatriots by European states struggling with a migrant crisis. Related: Detain refugees arriving in Europe for 18 months, says Tusk \u201cPakistani laws have been violated, which absolutely cannot be allowed,\u201d Khan said in a statement.The issue has been a running source of tension with the EU. In early November Khan suspended an agreement on readmitting illegal detainees, saying two EU states were sending Pakistanis home on \u201cbaseless terrorism charges\u201d.\u201cThose who give lectures on fundamental rights to us should also respect fundamental rights of Pakistanis,\u201d he said at the time.Last week Dimitris Avramopoulos, a Greek politician and the EU commissioner responsible for migration policy, visited Pakistan to try to soothe concerns.But on Thursday Pakistan said the EU was still not honouring pledges to only return those whose identity had been confirmed, saying the men flown back to Greece were \u201cunverified deportees\u201d.The EU office in Islamabad said all 50 people on the flight organised by Frontex, the agency in charge of Europe\u2019s borders, had been given passports to travel by the Pakistani embassies in Greece, Bulgaria and Austria.It said Pakistan\u2019s demand that the migrants should also have their national identity card numbers was impossible for EU officials to organise and that it was not part of the agreement struck with Pakistan.\u201cThe list of names [of the deportees] had been sent to the Pakistani authorities earlier, providing sufficient time to the relevant Pakistani authorities to find the missing numbers for the returnees,\u201d the EU said.Last year, about 21,000 Pakistanis who were in Europe without permission were ordered to return home. An estimated 50,000 Pakistanis travel legally to Europe for work each year.Clashes erupted on the Greek-Macedonian border on Tuesday when Macedonian police fired teargas to repel hundreds of mostly Pakistani migrants trying to push through a new border fence.Some of them later blocked the crossing for Syrians and others who would have been let in as war refugees. \u201cIf we don\u2019t cross, no one does!\u201d they chanted.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Migration", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Greece", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Pakistan sends deported migrants back to Greece"},{"date": "2015-12-28T07:00:22Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The raid that killed Osama bin Laden in May 2011 was blamed for a spike in polio in Pakistan because some used the CIA\u2019s involvement in the mission \u2013 it set up a fake immunisation campaign in order to obtain DNA samples \u2013 as an excuse to target vaccinators under the pretence that they were associated with the US.Yet now the World Health Organisation believes the world is on the verge of becoming free of the disease.Polio was once one of the most feared diseases but after a global immunisation programme, delivered in the UK through sugar cubes, it was eradicated in most countries in the 1990s.Pakistan and Afghanistan are the only two countries where polio is still endemic, but in the past year there has been a dramatic drop in cases to 66 in the two countries, compared with 332 cases in nine countries in 2014. \u201cWhen we look back on 2015, it may well be seen as the year the tide irreversibly turned on polio,\u201d says the WHO. There have, however, been several false dawns since polio eradication was set as a target in 1988, when the disease was endemic in more than 125 countries. Related: Africa's year free of polio is giant step towards eradication In August, Africa marked a year free of the disease. But in September, two children in Ukraine were paralysed after contracting polio in the first cases of the disease in Europe since 2010.Until two years ago, Pakistan and Afghanistan remained problematic, with the virus resurgent in conflict zones. There remains a risk of regional flare-ups.The fact that a health programme could be used for gathering intelligence provided \u201can excuse for people who wanted to promote suspicion\u201d, said Dr Hamid Jafari, director of the global polio eradication initiative at the WHO.\u201cIn 2013, in almost every campaign there was an attack, sometimes successful,\u201d he said. \u201cThe CIA certainly gave the excuse to these militants who were using this Osama bin Laden death to attack.\u201dA fundamental change in approach aimed at reducing health workers\u2019 exposure, combined with improved security and community engagement, is now paying off. A new approach \u2013 switching vaccination programmes from four days to one \u2013 has had an immediate impact.\u201cIn the context of polio, the timing of the vaccination programme, how much you publicise them, the length of time you expose your workers to a threat, is all considered,\u201d said Jafari. Fewer armed guards walk around with individual teams; sometimes villages might be cordoned off for a few hours to create a safe zone for vaccinators. One of the biggest factors in the increase in vaccination in high-risk areas is giving the job to local women, who will be trusted by parents of young children. \u201cThe most important learning in the context of Pakistan is the engagement and empowerment of the community themselves, when the programme engages with the power structures within the community. Leaders in the community take a big part of the control of the programme into the hands of the community, which then provides its own security,\u201d added Jafari.Latest figures for Pakistan show 49 cases for 2015, compared with 282 in 2014.The government is now redoubling its efforts in critical areas such as North Waziristan where improved security is allowing displaced families to return home. The WHO hopes that Pakistan and Afghanistan will be polio-free by mid-2016, with global eradication targeted for 2019.", "tags": ["Global development", "Polio", "Pakistan", "Health", "Vaccines and immunisation", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "World Health Organisation"], "title": "Pakistan success stories increase hopes of global polio eradication"},{"date": "2015-12-26T19:41:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "When Nixon went to China, it was said that only a man of his standing in America\u2019s hawkish conservative community could have risked making that momentous journey. Narendra Modi\u2019s visit to Pakistan on Saturday, hatched in secrecy and delivered as a surprise, has prompted his acolytes to make similar arguments.An Indian prime minister belonging to a Hindu-supremacist party, they say, has fostered peace simply by \u201cdropping by\u201d the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for a couple of hours on his way back from Afghanistan. If anything, the opposite is true. After his election to the prime minister\u2019s office last May, Modi assiduously cultivated the image of a tough guy. He instructed India\u2019s armed forces to respond forcefully to Pakistani provocations on the de facto border between the two nations in Kashmir. He abruptly cancelled talks between Indian and Pakistani diplomats over the latter\u2019s meeting with Kashmiri separatists. His ministers repeatedly demanded action against Pakistani citizens accused of orchestrating the terrorist siege of Mumbai in 2008.His volte-face, given that it was he who encouraged the intensification of Indian suspicions and hostility toward Pakistan, seems whimsical rather than statesmanlike. There has been no demonstrable change in Pakistan\u2019s behaviour to justify the enormous reward of a visit by India\u2019s prime minister. The men behind the Mumbai massacre remain at large. Hafiz Saeed, a man carrying a $10mn US State Department bounty on his head for his role in the atrocity, continues openly to incite hatred against India. Dawood Ibrahim, the man behind the worst terrorist attack in India\u2019s history, lives in palatial splendour in Karachi\u2019s Clifton neighbourhood.By turning up in Pakistan with barely any notice \u2013 a few hours after announcing his trip on Twitter \u2013 Modi immediately undermined his parliamentary colleagues on an issue so vital to India\u2019s national security that it ought be above partisan politics. More Pakistanis than Indians knew about Modi\u2019s travel plans. This was all the more outrageous considering Modi\u2019s record, in opposition, of tormenting any politician who made an overture to Pakistan.Modi\u2019s visit to Pakistan is the first by an Indian prime minister in over a decade. To outsiders, it will seem bold. But to those familiar with the subcontinent\u2019s history, it signals a continuity with \u2013 not a departure from \u2013 the futile pattern of India-Pakistan relations. Tensions are smoothed by unexpected diplomacy, there is much fanfare, personal relationships between leaders are applauded \u2013 and then it\u2019s business as usual.Modi\u2019s personal diplomacy is a nonstarter because Nawaz Sharif, Modi\u2019s counterpart in Pakistan, is not the ultimate decision maker in his country. That job is held by the military and intelligence chiefs, and they draw their power and legitimacy by magnifying the \u201cthreat\u201d from India. The last time Sharif hosted an Indian prime minister in Lahore, in 1999, his army, unbeknown to him, launched a war against India. Sharif was deposed from office and exiled to Saudi Arabia, and Pakistan was placed under military dictatorship for a decade. The truth is that, far from nurturing peace, India endangers democratic politicians in Pakistan merely by befriending them.Modi, by virtue of tolerating Hindu bigotry in India, has earned precious political capital. But even this is not enough to mend relations with Pakistan because Modi cannot give Pakistan\u2019s generals what they seek: territorial concessions on Kashmir. The US has almost certainly cajoled Modi to improve relations with Pakistan. But it is the persecution of Muslim minorities in Modi\u2019s India, not the propitiation of Muslim majoritarians in Pakistan, that should concern the world more.The animosity between Pakistan and India is a product of national ideologies that are irreconcilable: one regards itself as the authentic home of the subcontinent\u2019s Muslims; the other sees itself, at least in theory, as the practitioner of a pluralistic secular nationalism that transcends religion. One nullifies the other.The two can exist in peace only if they exist in isolation from each other. This explains why the longest bouts of peace between the two nations occurred when they spurned each other. Like a divorced couple, India and Pakistan \u2013 especially Pakistan \u2013 need time apart to develop identities independent of each other. Sadly, to the detriment of their peoples, they have been in each other\u2019s face ever since the British departed the subcontinent. Modi, like every Indian prime minister, refuses to learn this lesson. His \u201cdiplomacy\u201d will do nothing to advance peace. Instead, it will embolden elements within Pakistan\u2019s military-intelligence complex to act in ways that will be adversarial to Pakistan\u2019s democracy \u2013 and India\u2019s security.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan"], "title": "Modi\u2019s unexpected visit to Pakistan will make little difference | Kapil Komireddi"},{"date": "2015-12-03T16:55:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Thirty-one migrants made a round trip from Greece to Pakistan on Thursday after the government in Islamabad said the EU had illegally deported them.Although 19 out of the 50 deportees who came in on a charter plane were taken into custody in Pakistan, the remainder stayed on board for almost two hours before returning to Greece after the government said they did not have the correct paperwork.It was the latest salvo in a row between the EU and Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, the Pakistani interior minister angry about the treatment of his compatriots by European states struggling with a migrant crisis. Related: Detain refugees arriving in Europe for 18 months, says Tusk \u201cPakistani laws have been violated, which absolutely cannot be allowed,\u201d Khan said in a statement.The issue has been a running source of tension with the EU. In early November Khan suspended an agreement on readmitting illegal detainees, saying two EU states were sending Pakistanis home on \u201cbaseless terrorism charges\u201d.\u201cThose who give lectures on fundamental rights to us should also respect fundamental rights of Pakistanis,\u201d he said at the time.Last week Dimitris Avramopoulos, a Greek politician and the EU commissioner responsible for migration policy, visited Pakistan to try to soothe concerns.But on Thursday Pakistan said the EU was still not honouring pledges to only return those whose identity had been confirmed, saying the men flown back to Greece were \u201cunverified deportees\u201d.The EU office in Islamabad said all 50 people on the flight organised by Frontex, the agency in charge of Europe\u2019s borders, had been given passports to travel by the Pakistani embassies in Greece, Bulgaria and Austria.It said Pakistan\u2019s demand that the migrants should also have their national identity card numbers was impossible for EU officials to organise and that it was not part of the agreement struck with Pakistan.\u201cThe list of names [of the deportees] had been sent to the Pakistani authorities earlier, providing sufficient time to the relevant Pakistani authorities to find the missing numbers for the returnees,\u201d the EU said.Last year, about 21,000 Pakistanis who were in Europe without permission were ordered to return home. An estimated 50,000 Pakistanis travel legally to Europe for work each year.Clashes erupted on the Greek-Macedonian border on Tuesday when Macedonian police fired teargas to repel hundreds of mostly Pakistani migrants trying to push through a new border fence.Some of them later blocked the crossing for Syrians and others who would have been let in as war refugees. \u201cIf we don\u2019t cross, no one does!\u201d they chanted.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Migration", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Greece", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Pakistan sends deported migrants back to Greece"},{"date": "2015-12-28T07:00:22Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The raid that killed Osama bin Laden in May 2011 was blamed for a spike in polio in Pakistan because some used the CIA\u2019s involvement in the mission \u2013 it set up a fake immunisation campaign in order to obtain DNA samples \u2013 as an excuse to target vaccinators under the pretence that they were associated with the US.Yet now the World Health Organisation believes the world is on the verge of becoming free of the disease.Polio was once one of the most feared diseases but after a global immunisation programme, delivered in the UK through sugar cubes, it was eradicated in most countries in the 1990s.Pakistan and Afghanistan are the only two countries where polio is still endemic, but in the past year there has been a dramatic drop in cases to 66 in the two countries, compared with 332 cases in nine countries in 2014. \u201cWhen we look back on 2015, it may well be seen as the year the tide irreversibly turned on polio,\u201d says the WHO. There have, however, been several false dawns since polio eradication was set as a target in 1988, when the disease was endemic in more than 125 countries. Related: Africa's year free of polio is giant step towards eradication In August, Africa marked a year free of the disease. But in September, two children in Ukraine were paralysed after contracting polio in the first cases of the disease in Europe since 2010.Until two years ago, Pakistan and Afghanistan remained problematic, with the virus resurgent in conflict zones. There remains a risk of regional flare-ups.The fact that a health programme could be used for gathering intelligence provided \u201can excuse for people who wanted to promote suspicion\u201d, said Dr Hamid Jafari, director of the global polio eradication initiative at the WHO.\u201cIn 2013, in almost every campaign there was an attack, sometimes successful,\u201d he said. \u201cThe CIA certainly gave the excuse to these militants who were using this Osama bin Laden death to attack.\u201dA fundamental change in approach aimed at reducing health workers\u2019 exposure, combined with improved security and community engagement, is now paying off. A new approach \u2013 switching vaccination programmes from four days to one \u2013 has had an immediate impact.\u201cIn the context of polio, the timing of the vaccination programme, how much you publicise them, the length of time you expose your workers to a threat, is all considered,\u201d said Jafari. Fewer armed guards walk around with individual teams; sometimes villages might be cordoned off for a few hours to create a safe zone for vaccinators. One of the biggest factors in the increase in vaccination in high-risk areas is giving the job to local women, who will be trusted by parents of young children. \u201cThe most important learning in the context of Pakistan is the engagement and empowerment of the community themselves, when the programme engages with the power structures within the community. Leaders in the community take a big part of the control of the programme into the hands of the community, which then provides its own security,\u201d added Jafari.Latest figures for Pakistan show 49 cases for 2015, compared with 282 in 2014.The government is now redoubling its efforts in critical areas such as North Waziristan where improved security is allowing displaced families to return home. The WHO hopes that Pakistan and Afghanistan will be polio-free by mid-2016, with global eradication targeted for 2019.", "tags": ["Global development", "Polio", "Pakistan", "Health", "Vaccines and immunisation", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "World Health Organisation"], "title": "Pakistan success stories increase hopes of global polio eradication"},{"date": "2015-12-26T19:41:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "When Nixon went to China, it was said that only a man of his standing in America\u2019s hawkish conservative community could have risked making that momentous journey. Narendra Modi\u2019s visit to Pakistan on Saturday, hatched in secrecy and delivered as a surprise, has prompted his acolytes to make similar arguments.An Indian prime minister belonging to a Hindu-supremacist party, they say, has fostered peace simply by \u201cdropping by\u201d the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for a couple of hours on his way back from Afghanistan. If anything, the opposite is true. After his election to the prime minister\u2019s office last May, Modi assiduously cultivated the image of a tough guy. He instructed India\u2019s armed forces to respond forcefully to Pakistani provocations on the de facto border between the two nations in Kashmir. He abruptly cancelled talks between Indian and Pakistani diplomats over the latter\u2019s meeting with Kashmiri separatists. His ministers repeatedly demanded action against Pakistani citizens accused of orchestrating the terrorist siege of Mumbai in 2008.His volte-face, given that it was he who encouraged the intensification of Indian suspicions and hostility toward Pakistan, seems whimsical rather than statesmanlike. There has been no demonstrable change in Pakistan\u2019s behaviour to justify the enormous reward of a visit by India\u2019s prime minister. The men behind the Mumbai massacre remain at large. Hafiz Saeed, a man carrying a $10mn US State Department bounty on his head for his role in the atrocity, continues openly to incite hatred against India. Dawood Ibrahim, the man behind the worst terrorist attack in India\u2019s history, lives in palatial splendour in Karachi\u2019s Clifton neighbourhood.By turning up in Pakistan with barely any notice \u2013 a few hours after announcing his trip on Twitter \u2013 Modi immediately undermined his parliamentary colleagues on an issue so vital to India\u2019s national security that it ought be above partisan politics. More Pakistanis than Indians knew about Modi\u2019s travel plans. This was all the more outrageous considering Modi\u2019s record, in opposition, of tormenting any politician who made an overture to Pakistan.Modi\u2019s visit to Pakistan is the first by an Indian prime minister in over a decade. To outsiders, it will seem bold. But to those familiar with the subcontinent\u2019s history, it signals a continuity with \u2013 not a departure from \u2013 the futile pattern of India-Pakistan relations. Tensions are smoothed by unexpected diplomacy, there is much fanfare, personal relationships between leaders are applauded \u2013 and then it\u2019s business as usual.Modi\u2019s personal diplomacy is a nonstarter because Nawaz Sharif, Modi\u2019s counterpart in Pakistan, is not the ultimate decision maker in his country. That job is held by the military and intelligence chiefs, and they draw their power and legitimacy by magnifying the \u201cthreat\u201d from India. The last time Sharif hosted an Indian prime minister in Lahore, in 1999, his army, unbeknown to him, launched a war against India. Sharif was deposed from office and exiled to Saudi Arabia, and Pakistan was placed under military dictatorship for a decade. The truth is that, far from nurturing peace, India endangers democratic politicians in Pakistan merely by befriending them.Modi, by virtue of tolerating Hindu bigotry in India, has earned precious political capital. But even this is not enough to mend relations with Pakistan because Modi cannot give Pakistan\u2019s generals what they seek: territorial concessions on Kashmir. The US has almost certainly cajoled Modi to improve relations with Pakistan. But it is the persecution of Muslim minorities in Modi\u2019s India, not the propitiation of Muslim majoritarians in Pakistan, that should concern the world more.The animosity between Pakistan and India is a product of national ideologies that are irreconcilable: one regards itself as the authentic home of the subcontinent\u2019s Muslims; the other sees itself, at least in theory, as the practitioner of a pluralistic secular nationalism that transcends religion. One nullifies the other.The two can exist in peace only if they exist in isolation from each other. This explains why the longest bouts of peace between the two nations occurred when they spurned each other. Like a divorced couple, India and Pakistan \u2013 especially Pakistan \u2013 need time apart to develop identities independent of each other. Sadly, to the detriment of their peoples, they have been in each other\u2019s face ever since the British departed the subcontinent. Modi, like every Indian prime minister, refuses to learn this lesson. His \u201cdiplomacy\u201d will do nothing to advance peace. Instead, it will embolden elements within Pakistan\u2019s military-intelligence complex to act in ways that will be adversarial to Pakistan\u2019s democracy \u2013 and India\u2019s security.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan"], "title": "Modi\u2019s unexpected visit to Pakistan will make little difference | Kapil Komireddi"},{"date": "2015-12-09T19:30:49Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Relations between Pakistan and India improved dramatically on Wednesday when the two sparring nuclear-armed neighbours agreed to unrestricted talks after years of disagreeing terms of any discussions of their numerous disputes.The diplomatic breakthrough by two countries that regularly exchange fire across their contested borders was announced at the end of a regional summit in Islamabad where officials also hinted at a possible revival of talks between the Afghan government and \u201cTaliban groups\u201d.The restarting of a \u201ccomprehensive bilateral dialogue\u201d was announced by India\u2019s top diplomat Sushma Swaraj, the first Indian foreign minister to visit Pakistan since 2012.High-ranking officials from the nuclear-armed neighbours have held precious few meetings since the election of Narendra Modi as prime minister of India in May 2014 given his government\u2019s insistence that talks focus on battling terrorism and not the contested region of Kashmir, a key Pakistan concern.On Wednesday Swaraj not only met with Nawaz Sharif, the Pakistani prime minister, and his top foreign affairs adviser, but also agreed to start a dialogue process that would include Kashmir and other border disputes.Pakistan said it was taking steps to bring about the \u201cearly conclusion\u201d of the stalled trial of those involved in the 2008 terror attacks on Mumbai, India\u2019s financial capital, which was masterminded by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani militant group.Earlier in the day Swaraj told representatives of 31 countries gathered for the Heart of Asia conference on the future of Afghanistan that it was time for India and Pakistan to display \u201cthe maturity and self-confidence to do business with each other and strengthen regional trade and cooperation\u201d.She added: \u201cThe entire world is waiting and rooting for a change. Let us not disappoint them.\u201dThe change in tack had been presaged by a closed-door meeting in Bangkok on Sunday between the two countries\u2019 national security advisers, which itself followed an informal conversation between Modi and Sharif on the sidelines of the Paris climate change conference the week before.Analysts said India softened its position after a string of state elections when it was in the interest of Modi\u2019s Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata party to strike a hawkish, populist line against Pakistan. Related: Afghanistan security 'undermined by efforts to crush Pakistani militants' In a busy day of diplomacy, the Heart of Asia summit also saw officials from leading countries hint at fresh talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government which were abandoned after just one round this summer.Antony J Blinken, US deputy secretary of state, said the Afghan and Pakistani leaders renewed their commitment to an \u201cAfghan owned and Afghan led\u201d process during meetings with senior diplomats from the US and China, in a sign of the powerful international pressures for a peaceful end to the war.Blinken said the first Pakistani-brokered meeting between Afghan officials and authorised Taliban representatives in a hill town near Islamabad on 8 July had been a \u201cvery significant development\u201d and there was a \u201cclear desire to return to that process\u201d.Salahuddin Rabbani, the Afghan foreign minister, said he hoped to see positive moves in the coming weeks on peace talks.There are doubts over how quickly the talks can begin given the violent splits that developed within the Taliban after it was revealed in late July that the insurgency\u2019s spiritual leader Mullah Omar had been dead for two years.News of Omar\u2019s death triggered a sharp increase in attacks in Afghanistan as the Taliban\u2019s new leader Mullah Mansoor attempted to assert his authority over a movement divided over both his leadership and the wisdom of negotiating with the Kabul government.In a statement Pakistan\u2019s foreign ministry appeared to recognise the divisions by explicitly referring to multiple Taliban groups.Pakistan \u201cwill work to create conditions that encourage participation of Taliban groups in a peace process that demonstrates to them that they have a real option of political engagement\u201d, it said.The surge in violence, which many in Afghanistan believe is caused by clandestine Pakistani support for the rebels, heaped pressure on Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president, to abandon his policy of making concessions to Islamabad to gain Pakistan\u2019s backing for peace talks.Afghanistan\u2019s enduring security crisis was highlighted on the eve of Ghani\u2019s arrival in Islamabad when 37 people were killed during a Taliban attack on Kandahar airport, a major civilian and military hub in the country\u2019s south.Ghani told the conference that steps taken by Pakistan against terrorism had further undermined Afghan security by flushing ever more militants across the border.He said Afghan special forces had been forced to launch more than 40 operations against the TTP and that the country was now a hotbed of international jihadi.\u201cAl-Qaida, [Isis] and terrorists from China, Russia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, the Middle East are all, unfortunately, present on our soil,\u201d he said.Aziz Ahmed Khan, a former Pakistani ambassador to both Kabul and New Delhi, said there was now a \u201cray of hope\u201d for improved relations with India.However bitter experience meant \u201cyou should never be overly enthusiastic because you never know where the next stumbling block will come\u201d, he said.Khan doubted there would be an immediate resumption of talks with the Taliban saying there now needed to be an \u201cintra-Taliban reconciliation process\u201d.\u201cAshraf Ghani probably did have reason to be upset with us so the fact that he has come here and everyone has talked at the highest level is something,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Kashmir"], "title": "Pakistan and India agree to resume diplomatic dialogue"},{"date": "2015-12-03T16:55:33Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Thirty-one migrants made a round trip from Greece to Pakistan on Thursday after the government in Islamabad said the EU had illegally deported them.Although 19 out of the 50 deportees who came in on a charter plane were taken into custody in Pakistan, the remainder stayed on board for almost two hours before returning to Greece after the government said they did not have the correct paperwork.It was the latest salvo in a row between the EU and Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, the Pakistani interior minister angry about the treatment of his compatriots by European states struggling with a migrant crisis. Related: Detain refugees arriving in Europe for 18 months, says Tusk \u201cPakistani laws have been violated, which absolutely cannot be allowed,\u201d Khan said in a statement.The issue has been a running source of tension with the EU. In early November Khan suspended an agreement on readmitting illegal detainees, saying two EU states were sending Pakistanis home on \u201cbaseless terrorism charges\u201d.\u201cThose who give lectures on fundamental rights to us should also respect fundamental rights of Pakistanis,\u201d he said at the time.Last week Dimitris Avramopoulos, a Greek politician and the EU commissioner responsible for migration policy, visited Pakistan to try to soothe concerns.But on Thursday Pakistan said the EU was still not honouring pledges to only return those whose identity had been confirmed, saying the men flown back to Greece were \u201cunverified deportees\u201d.The EU office in Islamabad said all 50 people on the flight organised by Frontex, the agency in charge of Europe\u2019s borders, had been given passports to travel by the Pakistani embassies in Greece, Bulgaria and Austria.It said Pakistan\u2019s demand that the migrants should also have their national identity card numbers was impossible for EU officials to organise and that it was not part of the agreement struck with Pakistan.\u201cThe list of names [of the deportees] had been sent to the Pakistani authorities earlier, providing sufficient time to the relevant Pakistani authorities to find the missing numbers for the returnees,\u201d the EU said.Last year, about 21,000 Pakistanis who were in Europe without permission were ordered to return home. An estimated 50,000 Pakistanis travel legally to Europe for work each year.Clashes erupted on the Greek-Macedonian border on Tuesday when Macedonian police fired teargas to repel hundreds of mostly Pakistani migrants trying to push through a new border fence.Some of them later blocked the crossing for Syrians and others who would have been let in as war refugees. \u201cIf we don\u2019t cross, no one does!\u201d they chanted.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "Migration", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Greece", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Pakistan sends deported migrants back to Greece"},{"date": "2015-12-28T07:00:22Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "The raid that killed Osama bin Laden in May 2011 was blamed for a spike in polio in Pakistan because some used the CIA\u2019s involvement in the mission \u2013 it set up a fake immunisation campaign in order to obtain DNA samples \u2013 as an excuse to target vaccinators under the pretence that they were associated with the US.Yet now the World Health Organisation believes the world is on the verge of becoming free of the disease.Polio was once one of the most feared diseases but after a global immunisation programme, delivered in the UK through sugar cubes, it was eradicated in most countries in the 1990s.Pakistan and Afghanistan are the only two countries where polio is still endemic, but in the past year there has been a dramatic drop in cases to 66 in the two countries, compared with 332 cases in nine countries in 2014. \u201cWhen we look back on 2015, it may well be seen as the year the tide irreversibly turned on polio,\u201d says the WHO. There have, however, been several false dawns since polio eradication was set as a target in 1988, when the disease was endemic in more than 125 countries. Related: Africa's year free of polio is giant step towards eradication In August, Africa marked a year free of the disease. But in September, two children in Ukraine were paralysed after contracting polio in the first cases of the disease in Europe since 2010.Until two years ago, Pakistan and Afghanistan remained problematic, with the virus resurgent in conflict zones. There remains a risk of regional flare-ups.The fact that a health programme could be used for gathering intelligence provided \u201can excuse for people who wanted to promote suspicion\u201d, said Dr Hamid Jafari, director of the global polio eradication initiative at the WHO.\u201cIn 2013, in almost every campaign there was an attack, sometimes successful,\u201d he said. \u201cThe CIA certainly gave the excuse to these militants who were using this Osama bin Laden death to attack.\u201dA fundamental change in approach aimed at reducing health workers\u2019 exposure, combined with improved security and community engagement, is now paying off. A new approach \u2013 switching vaccination programmes from four days to one \u2013 has had an immediate impact.\u201cIn the context of polio, the timing of the vaccination programme, how much you publicise them, the length of time you expose your workers to a threat, is all considered,\u201d said Jafari. Fewer armed guards walk around with individual teams; sometimes villages might be cordoned off for a few hours to create a safe zone for vaccinators. One of the biggest factors in the increase in vaccination in high-risk areas is giving the job to local women, who will be trusted by parents of young children. \u201cThe most important learning in the context of Pakistan is the engagement and empowerment of the community themselves, when the programme engages with the power structures within the community. Leaders in the community take a big part of the control of the programme into the hands of the community, which then provides its own security,\u201d added Jafari.Latest figures for Pakistan show 49 cases for 2015, compared with 282 in 2014.The government is now redoubling its efforts in critical areas such as North Waziristan where improved security is allowing displaced families to return home. The WHO hopes that Pakistan and Afghanistan will be polio-free by mid-2016, with global eradication targeted for 2019.", "tags": ["Global development", "Polio", "Pakistan", "Health", "Vaccines and immunisation", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "World Health Organisation"], "title": "Pakistan success stories increase hopes of global polio eradication"},{"date": "2015-12-26T19:41:00Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "When Nixon went to China, it was said that only a man of his standing in America\u2019s hawkish conservative community could have risked making that momentous journey. Narendra Modi\u2019s visit to Pakistan on Saturday, hatched in secrecy and delivered as a surprise, has prompted his acolytes to make similar arguments.An Indian prime minister belonging to a Hindu-supremacist party, they say, has fostered peace simply by \u201cdropping by\u201d the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for a couple of hours on his way back from Afghanistan. If anything, the opposite is true. After his election to the prime minister\u2019s office last May, Modi assiduously cultivated the image of a tough guy. He instructed India\u2019s armed forces to respond forcefully to Pakistani provocations on the de facto border between the two nations in Kashmir. He abruptly cancelled talks between Indian and Pakistani diplomats over the latter\u2019s meeting with Kashmiri separatists. His ministers repeatedly demanded action against Pakistani citizens accused of orchestrating the terrorist siege of Mumbai in 2008.His volte-face, given that it was he who encouraged the intensification of Indian suspicions and hostility toward Pakistan, seems whimsical rather than statesmanlike. There has been no demonstrable change in Pakistan\u2019s behaviour to justify the enormous reward of a visit by India\u2019s prime minister. The men behind the Mumbai massacre remain at large. Hafiz Saeed, a man carrying a $10mn US State Department bounty on his head for his role in the atrocity, continues openly to incite hatred against India. Dawood Ibrahim, the man behind the worst terrorist attack in India\u2019s history, lives in palatial splendour in Karachi\u2019s Clifton neighbourhood.By turning up in Pakistan with barely any notice \u2013 a few hours after announcing his trip on Twitter \u2013 Modi immediately undermined his parliamentary colleagues on an issue so vital to India\u2019s national security that it ought be above partisan politics. More Pakistanis than Indians knew about Modi\u2019s travel plans. This was all the more outrageous considering Modi\u2019s record, in opposition, of tormenting any politician who made an overture to Pakistan.Modi\u2019s visit to Pakistan is the first by an Indian prime minister in over a decade. To outsiders, it will seem bold. But to those familiar with the subcontinent\u2019s history, it signals a continuity with \u2013 not a departure from \u2013 the futile pattern of India-Pakistan relations. Tensions are smoothed by unexpected diplomacy, there is much fanfare, personal relationships between leaders are applauded \u2013 and then it\u2019s business as usual.Modi\u2019s personal diplomacy is a nonstarter because Nawaz Sharif, Modi\u2019s counterpart in Pakistan, is not the ultimate decision maker in his country. That job is held by the military and intelligence chiefs, and they draw their power and legitimacy by magnifying the \u201cthreat\u201d from India. The last time Sharif hosted an Indian prime minister in Lahore, in 1999, his army, unbeknown to him, launched a war against India. Sharif was deposed from office and exiled to Saudi Arabia, and Pakistan was placed under military dictatorship for a decade. The truth is that, far from nurturing peace, India endangers democratic politicians in Pakistan merely by befriending them.Modi, by virtue of tolerating Hindu bigotry in India, has earned precious political capital. But even this is not enough to mend relations with Pakistan because Modi cannot give Pakistan\u2019s generals what they seek: territorial concessions on Kashmir. The US has almost certainly cajoled Modi to improve relations with Pakistan. But it is the persecution of Muslim minorities in Modi\u2019s India, not the propitiation of Muslim majoritarians in Pakistan, that should concern the world more.The animosity between Pakistan and India is a product of national ideologies that are irreconcilable: one regards itself as the authentic home of the subcontinent\u2019s Muslims; the other sees itself, at least in theory, as the practitioner of a pluralistic secular nationalism that transcends religion. One nullifies the other.The two can exist in peace only if they exist in isolation from each other. This explains why the longest bouts of peace between the two nations occurred when they spurned each other. Like a divorced couple, India and Pakistan \u2013 especially Pakistan \u2013 need time apart to develop identities independent of each other. Sadly, to the detriment of their peoples, they have been in each other\u2019s face ever since the British departed the subcontinent. Modi, like every Indian prime minister, refuses to learn this lesson. His \u201cdiplomacy\u201d will do nothing to advance peace. Instead, it will embolden elements within Pakistan\u2019s military-intelligence complex to act in ways that will be adversarial to Pakistan\u2019s democracy \u2013 and India\u2019s security.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan"], "title": "Modi\u2019s unexpected visit to Pakistan will make little difference | Kapil Komireddi"},{"date": "2015-12-09T19:30:49Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Relations between Pakistan and India improved dramatically on Wednesday when the two sparring nuclear-armed neighbours agreed to unrestricted talks after years of disagreeing terms of any discussions of their numerous disputes.The diplomatic breakthrough by two countries that regularly exchange fire across their contested borders was announced at the end of a regional summit in Islamabad where officials also hinted at a possible revival of talks between the Afghan government and \u201cTaliban groups\u201d.The restarting of a \u201ccomprehensive bilateral dialogue\u201d was announced by India\u2019s top diplomat Sushma Swaraj, the first Indian foreign minister to visit Pakistan since 2012.High-ranking officials from the nuclear-armed neighbours have held precious few meetings since the election of Narendra Modi as prime minister of India in May 2014 given his government\u2019s insistence that talks focus on battling terrorism and not the contested region of Kashmir, a key Pakistan concern.On Wednesday Swaraj not only met with Nawaz Sharif, the Pakistani prime minister, and his top foreign affairs adviser, but also agreed to start a dialogue process that would include Kashmir and other border disputes.Pakistan said it was taking steps to bring about the \u201cearly conclusion\u201d of the stalled trial of those involved in the 2008 terror attacks on Mumbai, India\u2019s financial capital, which was masterminded by Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani militant group.Earlier in the day Swaraj told representatives of 31 countries gathered for the Heart of Asia conference on the future of Afghanistan that it was time for India and Pakistan to display \u201cthe maturity and self-confidence to do business with each other and strengthen regional trade and cooperation\u201d.She added: \u201cThe entire world is waiting and rooting for a change. Let us not disappoint them.\u201dThe change in tack had been presaged by a closed-door meeting in Bangkok on Sunday between the two countries\u2019 national security advisers, which itself followed an informal conversation between Modi and Sharif on the sidelines of the Paris climate change conference the week before.Analysts said India softened its position after a string of state elections when it was in the interest of Modi\u2019s Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata party to strike a hawkish, populist line against Pakistan. Related: Afghanistan security 'undermined by efforts to crush Pakistani militants' In a busy day of diplomacy, the Heart of Asia summit also saw officials from leading countries hint at fresh talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government which were abandoned after just one round this summer.Antony J Blinken, US deputy secretary of state, said the Afghan and Pakistani leaders renewed their commitment to an \u201cAfghan owned and Afghan led\u201d process during meetings with senior diplomats from the US and China, in a sign of the powerful international pressures for a peaceful end to the war.Blinken said the first Pakistani-brokered meeting between Afghan officials and authorised Taliban representatives in a hill town near Islamabad on 8 July had been a \u201cvery significant development\u201d and there was a \u201cclear desire to return to that process\u201d.Salahuddin Rabbani, the Afghan foreign minister, said he hoped to see positive moves in the coming weeks on peace talks.There are doubts over how quickly the talks can begin given the violent splits that developed within the Taliban after it was revealed in late July that the insurgency\u2019s spiritual leader Mullah Omar had been dead for two years.News of Omar\u2019s death triggered a sharp increase in attacks in Afghanistan as the Taliban\u2019s new leader Mullah Mansoor attempted to assert his authority over a movement divided over both his leadership and the wisdom of negotiating with the Kabul government.In a statement Pakistan\u2019s foreign ministry appeared to recognise the divisions by explicitly referring to multiple Taliban groups.Pakistan \u201cwill work to create conditions that encourage participation of Taliban groups in a peace process that demonstrates to them that they have a real option of political engagement\u201d, it said.The surge in violence, which many in Afghanistan believe is caused by clandestine Pakistani support for the rebels, heaped pressure on Ashraf Ghani, the Afghan president, to abandon his policy of making concessions to Islamabad to gain Pakistan\u2019s backing for peace talks.Afghanistan\u2019s enduring security crisis was highlighted on the eve of Ghani\u2019s arrival in Islamabad when 37 people were killed during a Taliban attack on Kandahar airport, a major civilian and military hub in the country\u2019s south.Ghani told the conference that steps taken by Pakistan against terrorism had further undermined Afghan security by flushing ever more militants across the border.He said Afghan special forces had been forced to launch more than 40 operations against the TTP and that the country was now a hotbed of international jihadi.\u201cAl-Qaida, [Isis] and terrorists from China, Russia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, the Middle East are all, unfortunately, present on our soil,\u201d he said.Aziz Ahmed Khan, a former Pakistani ambassador to both Kabul and New Delhi, said there was now a \u201cray of hope\u201d for improved relations with India.However bitter experience meant \u201cyou should never be overly enthusiastic because you never know where the next stumbling block will come\u201d, he said.Khan doubted there would be an immediate resumption of talks with the Taliban saying there now needed to be an \u201cintra-Taliban reconciliation process\u201d.\u201cAshraf Ghani probably did have reason to be upset with us so the fact that he has come here and everyone has talked at the highest level is something,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["India", "Pakistan", "Afghanistan", "South and Central Asia", "World news", "Kashmir"], "title": "Pakistan and India agree to resume diplomatic dialogue"},{"date": "2015-11-30T12:58:14Z", "country": "pakistan", "content": "Smartphone and secure communications company BlackBerry will pull out of Pakistan by the end of the year over government intrusions into user privacy.The Pakistani government has banned the use of the company\u2019s BlackBerry Enterprise servers, which provide encrypted data and communications services to BlackBerry mobile phones.BlackBerry will \u201cexit the country entirely\u201d on 30 December, when BlackBerry mobile phones within the country will cease to operate. Originally BlackBerry was due to pull out in November, but the ban on its servers was put back by a month by Pakistan.BlackBerry chief operating officer Marty Beard said: \u201cThe truth is that the Pakistani government wanted the ability to monitor all BlackBerry Enterprise Service traffic in the country, including every email and BBM message. But BlackBerry will not comply with that sort of directive. \u201cWe do not support \u2018back doors\u2019 granting open access to our customers\u2019 information and have never done this anywhere in the world.\u201dPakistan\u2019s Telecommunications Authority ordered mobile phone operators and BlackBerry to cease using BlackBerry servers in July for \u201csecurity reasons\u201d. BlackBerry\u2019s secure servers cannot be intercepted by the Pakistan government, meaning that messaging services, email and browsing can be obfuscated from snooping. But BlackBerry insists that it will respond to \u201clawful government investigative requests of criminal activity\u201d.Beard said: \u201cPakistan\u2019s demand was not a question of public safety; we are more than happy to assist law enforcement agencies in investigations of criminal activity. Rather, Pakistan was essentially demanding unfettered access to all of our BES customers\u2019 information. The privacy of our customers is paramount to BlackBerry, and we will not compromise that principle.\u201dBlackBerry has faced similar problems in the past in India, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia. In 2010, BlackBerry services were banned within the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Bans were lifted in some states but with tightened restrictions.For Pakistan, BlackBerry\u2019s exit comes after a ramping up of government surveillance, which Privacy International said was an abuse of communications surveillance powers, including widespread internet-monitoring and censorship.", "tags": ["BlackBerry corporation", "Data and computer security", "Smartphones", "Privacy", "Technology", "Pakistan", "World news", "Surveillance", "South and Central Asia", "Mobile phones", "Telecoms"], "title": "BlackBerry to pull out of Pakistan over government surveillance"}]